You're still seeing a market that's a
little jittery.
>> There are no signs of cracking right
now.
>> We need to factor in a lot of
uncertainty.
>> We are in a new era of diversification.
>> We're seeing a lot of positive
tailwinds, but we are prepared for that
to face some challenges.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan [music] Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz,
and Anne Marie Hoordern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning, good morning from our
audience worldwide. Bloomberg
Surveillance starts right now. Coming to
Tuesday, holding on to a fragile
ceasefire. We're following a tense day
of trading strikes across the Middle
[music] East, keeping investors on edge
and oil comfortably above 100. The
tension having sent 30-year bond yields
through 5% for the first time since
July.
>> And this presents a real problem to the
bull case for equity markets. The whole
case has been predicated on the idea
that central banks would not hike rates
into an oil shock. Now you've got a 99%
chance of the ECB hiking rates by June,
and you have of course an increasing
chance also in the United States of a
Fed rate hike. It's not a base case,
still getting bled into some of the
market pricing for next year. At what
point does this really crimp some of the
momentum that we've seen in equities?
>> Should we just sit on the bond market
move just for a little bit more? Highest
close of the year on 10s and 30s. Some
[music] big numbers coming out of
Treasury. The quarterly refunding
statement comes on Wednesday. This is
the quarterly borrowing estimate, 189
billion US dollars. [music] That is a
heck of a lot more than the number
penciled in back in February. How does
this get received by a market that is
[music] it's expecting it to be issued
really on the front end of the yield
curve? At what point can they just
concentrate on the two-year yields and
not necessarily [music] call the hands
of the Federal Reserve? How much do they
move this away from the 10- and 30-year
to try to give some sort of headwind?
And can they do that given the amount of
debt that the United States has to
issue? It is 122 billion dollars more
than anticipated in February. [music]
That's a ton of debt right now to this
market. And why? Spending just feels
like it's going to be going up
especially when this administration is
asking for a much higher defense budget
given what has been going on with the
conflict in the Middle East.
>> issuance has been doing all the heavy
lifting ever since we had Janet Yellen
over at the Treasury and this line keeps
coming up in the statement. Does it
change on Wednesday? [music] The
increases in note and bond issuance not
expected quote for at least the next
several quarters. Does that [music]
language get adapted in a few days time
in the next 24 hours? We'll have to see
and ultimately how much does that affect
the market but are they trying to hold
off until after the election? Do they
increase some of the issuance? I mean
how much can they really hold off on
increasing some of the issuance given
the fact that that bill is massive and
also by the way we have the issuance
from all the corporate players too. I
mean at what point do they really start
cannibalizing from one another?
>> Crowding each other out. Alphabet
issuing debt over in Europe. We can talk
about that later in the program. Let's
talk about crude. This move here
surprising. [music]
Brent pulling back WTI as well. Brent
crude down to 113 down by 1.25%
yesterday moving [music]
over almost six percentage points
following tension in the Middle East.
Just go through the headlines piece by
piece. [music] The US military
fighting off attacks from Iran
facilitating the passage of two US
flagged [music] vessels at the same
time. The US is shooting down seven
small boats that a drone attacked over
in the UAE. Things were pretty tense in
the last 24 hours.
>> Massive escalation but the president
[music] did not say that this was an
interruption of the ceasefire but
potentially we're going to get an update
on how the US administration views the
past [music] 24 hours today. At 8:00
a.m. we will hear from General Keane as
well as Secretary Pete Hakes at the
D.O.D. beginning this press conference
and then later in the day we're also
going to be hearing from Secretary
Rubio. He'll be briefing at the White
House. Do they view this as an
escalation of hostilities? We heard from
the Iranian Foreign Minister. He said
project freedom is project deadlock.
They still have control right now of the
[music] Strait of Hormuz even if the
United States was able to make
incremental changes and what you see is
vessels clustering around Dubai [music]
now because it is becoming very tense to
try to cross that street.
>> If Iran is firing at the UAE and firing
at the US at [music] the same time and
the US is firing back, do we have a
ceasefire anymore?
Widely [music] no. I think that everyone
pretty much would agree. The fact that
it isn't being declared the end of the
ceasefire by either side and the fact
that you actually have some conciliatory
language come from both sides. The
Iranians even saying, "We look forward
to discussing more more talks." And the
fact that President Trump hasn't
escalated more significantly is being
taken by this market as a sign of relief
that no one wants to enter the hot war
that we were in a couple of weeks ago.
>> The equity markets bouncing back up by
0.3% on the S&P. Coming up this hour,
we'll catch up with Jeff Yu of BNY with
the equity rally looking to get back on
track. Jorge Leon of Rice Energy on a
fragile ceasefire and Jane Foley of
Rabobank on a pending rate cut
expectations. We begin this hour with
crude elevated following a tense 24
hours across the Middle East. Jeff Yu of
BNY writing, "Despite the lack of
progress in the Iran talks, the US
equity performance stands out. However,
the stress points in the US economy are
starting to show." Jeff joins us now for
more. Jeff, welcome to the program. The
data I've seen so far looks pretty
resilient. Where are you seeing the
stress and the shock starting to show?
So, it's more on a forward-looking basis
really and given the path for the Fed,
we're still looking at labor markets.
You know, you can argue, "Yes, it's
still a no fire, no higher economy." But
two things, you know, one, what point
does that shift towards a few more fires
and then compare to hires especially
with tightening financial conditions.
You know, you mentioned the 30-year year
rate yourself in the US. Secondly, how
about wage growth, right? Now, for the
US, I'll admit it's a bit asymmetric.
You know, the bar's always higher. It's
expected to lead. We've been talking
about US exceptionalism again. So,
cracks in so far as if it's not
performing up to very high standards,
that by markets will be considered a
crack as well especially given the
concentration risk.
>> Jeff, is that an argument to buy bonds
with 30s to 5 and 10 to the highs of the
year?
So, it right now our data is showing our
clients are loving this in terms of
bonds, but the key caveat if you don't
have to worry about FX exposure. So,
what we're seeing is US investors buying
US treasuries, European investors buying
Eurozone treasuries, UK investors buying
gilts. You know, some of the largest
flows we've seen over the last 2 months
or so because real rates are high. The
break evens haven't moved as much
comparatively. So, nominal yield higher,
that's great for pension managers and
the like. But if you have FX exposure,
you probably want to stay away from
that. So, the divergence is very, very
large. I want to get to that in one
second, but Jeff, just sitting on who's
buying this, then why is the yield
rising to such a degree? How much is
there a risk of central banks hiking
into potential weakness with the IOR
prices higher?
So, really glad you brought that up. I
don't think, especially in Europe, I
don't think any central bank should be
hiking right now. So, yes, the market's
pricing in almost 100% an ECB move in
June. I don't think that's the right
move. And I think that's why if you look
at our flows, yes, euros are at a
relatively elevated level, but you're
not seeing the conviction flows in there
relative to sterling because there's
policy error risk. If you hike right now
into a demand shock, then you risk
actually easing further than like even
the RBA today. Yes, they hiked. Um but
um Governor Bullock um mentioned worried
about mortgages, worried about wages and
the like. And I think that's why the ECB
is as the Bank of England is so hesitant
as well because the demand shock in the
UK is even stronger. Okay, should and
will are two different things, Jeff. And
people have been saying this for a long
time. And you've got a 99% chance right
now priced into the market the ECB is
going to hike rates in June. You have an
increasing chance that even the Federal
Reserve will be in the same boat. Is the
market just not believing this? Is the
market just essentially saying they're
not going to do it because essentially
it has always been
a a bad turnout.
Um so, I think it's quite idiosyncratic
right now because for the ECB, they
don't have a dual mandate. They don't
have an employment mandate, right? So,
they just follow inflation expectations
and wages. For the Bank of England, it's
a bit more balanced. Australia actually
does have a dual mandate similar to the
Fed right now, but they were sort of
hawkish beforehand. I think for the Fed,
um it really is about, you know,
balancing the labor market. So, if the
labor market also eases enough and wage
growth is soft enough such that you
don't worry about the second round
effects and you still see inflation
expectations being anchored. Which in
fairness is what the break-evens are
signaling right now, then I don't think
there's that much compunction for of a
move uh to be as aggressive. So, yes, I
think markets are still a bit too
aggressive in their pricing around the
world.
>> Jeff, what if this is more than just a
demand shock and this is a structural
change?
Wouldn't then banks like the ECB have to
hike?
So, from the ECB's point of view, they
would argue uh that you risk, you know,
having a more permanent uh disruption uh
and changes in how the economy is
structured. And without the resilience,
you know, that uh has been building
since 2022, but they're not there yet,
then maybe from their point of view,
they actually need to act. Now, in the
US again, it's actually a bit more
interesting because even if you don't
have the wage argument, then there's the
other argument because the US is so far
ahead on the AI side in terms of
productivity gains, that can actually
help offset some of the inflation as
well. That is the structural change
which is also anchoring the break-evens.
And I must say uh there there is a
stronger argument actually for that in
the US compared to uh Europe. But this
again is a favorable argument for the US
because it means real rates are probably
a priced a bit too high in Europe. They
need to come down, whereas they're
adequately priced in the US. So, again,
you know, that is sort of a US
exceptionalism story which again over
the last few weeks has been talked
about, of course, until the recent
tensions picking up again in the
straight.
>> a real risk here that we're confusing
should shouldn't with will and won't. I
understand why they shouldn't. We've
seen this under Trichet, particularly
over the ECB, the mistake into GFC, the
mistake into the Eurozone debt crisis.
Under Lagarde, let's talk about the will
won't. Feels like she set up June. It
looks like she set up June. Why wouldn't
they hike in June?
So, the moment she said at the press
conference that uh she's aware of the
direction, she mentioned the ECB, the
governing council has a direction. That
basically said they are moving, right?
So, every meeting is live, and they will
need to move. And we can argue whether
it's being dogmatic, or they genuinely
fear inflation expectations rising in
Europe because the last round of
inflation expectation surveys, they
actually did pick up um quite nicely,
not as strongly as 2022 2023, uh but
they wanted to shift anyway. But, I
think, you know, from um a growth
perspective, and if you look at where
the savings rates are, if you look at
the labor market, again, going back to
wages in Europe, if they start to really
soften, then maybe the governing council
will hold back a bit. Either way, I
think it's going to be closer than
expected in terms of the vote when it
comes to the meeting in June.
>> Just out of interest, do you think it's
a good argument to buy longer-dated debt
in Europe if we are on the brink of what
you would consider a policy mistake?
I would say yes, and that is favorable,
um as long as, and here's the key
caveat, because if we are going to
compare uh versus the attrition era, as
long as the policy mistake, you know,
does not trigger
fiscal issues, right? That was sort of
the case a dozen years ago, you know,
right now, we see less issues
surrounding that. We look at where BTPs
are trading, you look at where Greek
debt is trading, you Greece is a
certified one of the strongest names,
you know, fiscally speaking, right? Uh
so, I think that is a much stronger
argument, especially if the fiscal spend
in Germany, and heading into the EU
budget next year, you're going to see
more joint issuance. You're going to see
Germany anchoring the entire European
budget. So, yes, a much stronger
argument there. Hey Jeff, it's good to
see you. Thanks for dropping by. Jeff Yu
there of BNY. I think we've got a decent
feel for what he thinks these central
banks shouldn't do,
but what they will do might be somewhat
different.
>> is the contradiction in markets right
now, because the market is pricing in as
a base case what he thinks they
shouldn't do. So, is it just uh that two
markets are not speaking to one another?
Given that backdrop, why isn't the
dollar stronger? Why do people not want
to buy in another currency? Why is there
still an aversion to really going
overseas?
It's a sort of conundrum, wrapped in a
riddle. This is something I've been
thinking about a lot.
>> Well, we can spend some time with Jane
Foley a little bit later this hour to
talk about that. I'm pleased that's how
you spent your last 24 hours.
>> It's been great. At home.
>> getting massages.
>> weekend.
>> the dollar?
>> What about that dollar? I hope that's
not what you do. Equity futures right
now in the S&P 500 positive by 0.3%
with an update on stories worldwide with
your Bloomberg brief. Vonnie Quinn has
some more. Hey Vonnie. Hey, good
morning, John. Nearly a month into a
fragile ceasefire in the Middle East,
the US and Iran are trading fire again.
[music]
US Central Command says the military
fought off Iranian drones, missiles, and
small armed boats as it guided two
US-flagged vessels through the [music]
Strait of Hormuz.
The Trump administration is reportedly
considering an executive order to create
a working group on AI. The New [music]
York Times is reporting the proposal
could introduce the government reviews
of new AI models and resemble a
framework followed in the United
Kingdom. [music]
Palantir shares are lower in early
trading. Sales in the first quarter hit
a record, but commercial sales in the US
fell short of expectations.
>> [music]
>> Palantir's long-running deals with the
US and foreign governments are facing
growing competition as well from [music]
rival tech companies. And that is your
Bloomberg brief, John. Hey Vonnie, thank
you. More from Vonnie later this hour.
Up next on the program, the ceasefire in
jeopardy.
Can't let Iran have a nuclear weapon.
They said, "We have to take care of
business because we can't let that
happen." So, we did a little detour.
And it's working out very nicely. Up
next, we'll catch up with John Leibler
of Eurasia Group live from New York City
this morning. Good morning.
>> And this is how the day is stacking up,
full of economic data. 9:45 Eastern
Time, we've got a PMI. Then later on,
ISM [music] data, 10:00 a.m. Eastern
Time, and JOLTS data, too. The job data
starts to come through, job openings,
ahead of ADP tomorrow, claims on
Thursday, payrolls on Friday.
>> Yeah, a real key question here. If you
do have a hotter-than-expected print
Sorry, Stuart Kaiser, but does that
become negative for markets in the sense
that it opens the door a little [music]
bit wider for a rate hike? If the labor
market allows that sort of wage-price
spiral, that will suddenly change the
game.
>> Redefining dovishness at the moment,
aren't we? Indeed.
>> From cutting rates to not hiking. That
seems to be the dovish view right now,
not hiking.
>> essentially, even Neil Dutta coming out
and saying it's path The path is slim,
but it's there for them to have to hike
rates because ultimately, if you have an
economy that can handle higher prices,
and it keeps on coming through the price
increases, well, all of a sudden, you've
got a problem on your hands. The Fed has
to act. Here's the stock market picture
this morning, positive by a third of 1%
on the S&P, on the Nasdaq bouncing back
by 0.6. [music] AMD earnings after the
close, look out for that. In the
commodity market, crude still elevated,
a move of almost 6% in [music]
yesterday's session, eating into the
losses of Thursday and Friday. We're
back to about 113 on Brent. And with
[music] that move, the highest close of
the year on a 10-year yield, on a
30-year yield. And it's not just about
moving crude, it's about debt issuance,
as well. The quarterly refunding
estimate from the Treasury and the
numbers that we get from the Treasury
tomorrow. Just where on this curve is
that issuance going to fall? It's widely
expected to come on the front of the
yield curve. It still is $80 billion
more than a lot of people had expected
in the previous read. They are going to
have to lay out how they are going to
issue more debt without affecting this
market because it is very clear that
Secretary Treasury Treasury Secretary
Scott Bessent has his eye on the
10-year, and he's got his thumb on the
scale. So, let's see how he accomplishes
that.
>> Needs to push out, that's for sure. Down
just a basis point this morning, 4.43 on
10s. [music]
Under surveillance this morning, the
ceasefire in jeopardy.
Can't let Iran have a nuclear weapon.
We had all new highs and I said we have
to take care of business because we
can't let that happen. So, we did a
little detour
and it's working out very nicely. They
thought that energy would be at $300,
right? $300 a barrel and it's uh
like at a hundred.
Uh and I think going down and I see it
going down very substantially when this
is over. So, here's the latest this
morning. The US and Iran trading fresh
strikes in the Persian Gulf putting the
fragile ceasefire very much in doubt.
Bloomberg's Tyler Kendall joins us now
from Washington for more. Good morning,
Tyler.
Hey, John. Good morning. Well, yesterday
we saw the worst flare-up in fighting
since the ceasefire began nearly a month
ago as CENTCOM confirmed that the US
military repelled both missile and drone
attacks as it helped to guide at least
two US flag merchant vessels through the
Strait of Hormuz. President Trump later
added in a post that the US military had
destroyed at least seven Iranian fast
boats that had been targeting commercial
shipping amid big questions about just
what the situation in the Strait
currently looks like. Iran is warning
against any further movement as reports
confirm that the US has moved in at
least two naval warships to help with
future operations. And just underscoring
how fragile the situation is for
shippers, data analyzed by Bloomberg
news shows that an unusually large
amount of vessels are now clustered in
an area just off of Dubai, which is
right outside this newly created zone of
control according to maps released by
Iranian state media yesterday. It's of
course adding to the regional risks as
the UAE confirms that it intercepted
more than 20 projectiles in the last 24
hours and is now blaming Iran for
attacks on a key port as well as a
state-owned tanker. And John, within
just the the last few moments actually,
People familiar telling Bloomberg News
that officials in Abu Dhabi are in
preliminary talks to establish a new
defense-focused investment vehicle that
would be aimed at bolstering the
country's domestic manufacturing and
diversifying its supplies as this
conflict continues. Still, we did get
this post yesterday from Iran's foreign
minister saying that talks are making
progress. And when you ask the White
House, they maintain that diplomacy is
still an option. The question is just
how quickly we can get there. Dana
Kennedy with the latest. Dana, thank
you. Down in the nation's capital in
Washington, D.C. More from Dana in the
next hour. Let's extend the conversation
with John Lee from Eurasia Group writing
the following, "Risk of ceasefire
collapsing remains elevated as a deal is
unlikely until June. Negotiations appear
deadlocked with both sides believing
they hold the advantage." John joins us
now for more. John, welcome to the
program. Just out of interest, why is it
unlikely until June?
You know, both sides I think are not at
their pain threshold yet. Um certainly
the US is starting to feel some of the
economic pain from this war, but mostly
it's being felt abroad. And for the
Iranians, they're dug in. They're not
willing yet to give the concessions that
Donald Trump wants to see on the nuclear
program, and they think they have the
superior leverage in the deal. That's
what these attacks over the last 24
hours were about were about reasserting
Iranian dominance over the strait. So,
while we think there will be a deal, the
deal will probably come sometime in
June. It could come in May. We think it
probably comes sometime in June, which
means a very delayed reopening of the
Strait of Hormuz. But for right now,
both sides are kind of still circling
around each other. They're having these
preliminary talks that aren't really
going anywhere. And until they unlock
this nuclear issue, I I I don't think
there's space yet for a deal to come
together until the pain is higher. John,
so anyone watching the events play out
yesterday, it was clear violation of the
ceasefire. Is this administration
prepared to say that?
Uh no, because they don't want the
ceasefire to end. So, structurally, I I
we think both sides really don't want to
go back to fighting. The US doesn't have
the domestic political space to do so
and the Iranians just want to stop being
bombed. So, I I don't think either side
wants to
see the ceasefire break down and I think
that's what yester- yesterday
demonstrated. The Iranians were able to
send a message, we still control the
straight, United States you cannot
escort ships out of here easily without
us retaliating and the US had the
opportunity to declare the ceasefire
over and strike back and they didn't.
And I think that really shows kind of
the the structural incentive set to both
sides here to have to keep the peace.
Clearly the blockade is hitting the
Iranian economy though. At what point
will the pain be enough on this regime
though to bring them to their table? Or
does that point not even exist when
you're dealing with a regime like this?
Yes, so you look at the blockade and
Iran's now shipping about 30% of its
pre-war
oil out of Iran, but prices are much
higher. So, the hit to their budget is
only about 30 to 40% of their pre-war
pre-war budget. It's not great for them
and they've got a lot of reconstruction
to pay for now, but they can keep going
and the regime is solid in that
scenario. So, you know, they again, they
don't want to keep keep this fighting
up. I don't think the economic pain is
necessarily the thing that's going to
drive them to the negotiating table, but
at some point, you know, they're now
putting out plans to open the straight
with a phased discussion about the
nuclear targets and the US is saying no,
we have to do the nuclear first. You can
kind of see the contours of a deal and I
don't think the Iranians would be
engaging in these talks and putting out
these proposals if they didn't want to
get there.
John, a lot of people thought that the
deadline was May 14th when President
Trump and Xi Jinping of China were
supposedly going to meet. President
Trump says that meeting is still on. Do
you think that it's feasible that it
could take place without some sort of
better agreement in place
between Iran and the United States?
Yeah, absolutely. I don't think the
Chinese need to see a deal come together
and and they're not really that
involved. I mean they they might end up
being involved in some aspects of how
the a piece deal comes together, but
right now they're not important
interlocutors in this debate and Trump
himself is basically domestically
resilient to this uh to the to the fight
so far.
Uh you know, you had a clip on of him
earlier talking about how much worse he
thought this was going to be. So, I
don't think that the Iran conflict is in
any way an impediment to what both sides
in the US-China deal uh relationship
want, which is just calm right now. They
don't want anything to disrupt uh their
critical mineral supplies in the case of
the US and China's access to global
markets in the case of China. So, I
think that that is going to be the
overall uh state of play for US-China
for the near term and and Iran is not
going to disrupt that. Are there any
checks then on exactly how long this
goes for? Some people used to think that
it was oil prices. Oil prices now well
above $100 a barrel. When you take a
look at Brent in December, we're over
$90 a barrel. Some people were saying
this meeting with Xi Jinping, that
doesn't seem to be an issue. Other
people were saying popularity, that
doesn't seem to be an issue based on the
polls uh that are currently coming out.
So, what are the checks on how long this
could go on? Yeah, a great question. I
mean I think that this has been a gone
longer than we anticipated for sure, but
if you look at this accumulating
economic damage, I mean it's hard to see
oil staying contained where it is right
now uh if this conflict does go on
another several weeks. You also have the
enormous pain that's being felt globally
from shortages of helium, from shortages
of fertilizer, from shortages of
aluminum, and all these disruptive
effects across global supply chains are
going to start to have an impact on the
US economy in particular, and I think
that that mounting pressure uh I would
be very surprised if we don't see oil
going up from where it is today, and I
think that mounting pressure is
ultimately what makes the US say, "Okay,
fine. We'll do a deal here." And uh but
we don't expect that for another several
weeks, which is a pretty bad economic
story. That's not a good one, that's for
sure. John, thank you, sir. John LaForge
there, if you're actually agreeing with
his own predictions on where this is
going. For crude, I think we spent the
last 2 months, many people have asked in
the question, how much damage do these
high prices do? When you speak to people
in the commodity market, they still look
at this as low. Why crude prices still
so low given the risk and the reality
abroad right now?
This is ultimately the question that a
lot of them have to say. Other people
say, you can say that the market's
wrong, but the market tends to be right
more often. And then you have the likes
of Stephanie Roth over at Wolfe Research
talking about how the one big beautiful
bill and a whole host of other stimulus
stimuli measures have allowed this
economy to keep going. So, this is the
debate underpinning what seems to be a
persistently low number based on what
some of the commodity strategists are
saying. Also, this administration has
been able to jawbone this market. And
because of that, you have hedge funds
and traders unwilling to take on bigger
risk to bet to the upside or downside
because you're seeing 10 to 15% moves in
crude in a day, something you would
maybe see in a year. So, they've been
able to jawbone this but at some point
does it start to catch up to them,
especially [music] if John Leeboe says
you're not going to get something until
June? At the start of March, the
conversations we're having, imagine 2
months of this, you'd be talking about a
number closer to 200 than 100 on crude,
and that is not where we are this
morning. Brent at about 113. And next on
the program, Helima Croft Leanne of RBC
Capital Markets with Brent [music]
sitting above 110, plus your hires got
your morning movers Palantir sliding on
a sales miss. That stock is down by 3%.
>> [music]
>> Equity space in back up by 0.3% on the
S&P 500, on the Nasdaq up by 0.6.
[music] More earnings later, the
earnings so far phenomenal. Kansas Eric
Johnson writing this, "Earnings
estimates are moving up faster than
stock prices can keep up." Mike [music]
Wilson of Morgan Stanley putting some
numbers on those earnings. First quarter
EPS surprise for the median S&P 500
stock, 6% the strongest run up it's been
in 4 years. [music]
>> Yeah, saying that the median median
stock earnings growth is 16%
[music] which is just massive and you
can see that the forward EPS growth is
up 21% up from 8% at the start of the
year. So it gives you a sense of why
there's so much bullishness and why when
[music] you say but but but look at
those oil prices, people say look at
those earnings and tell me that I'm
wrong.
>> Look at those oil prices. Check [music]
them out. Brent and WTI. This is one of
the equity market somewhat insulated
from this. Brent crude just short of
113, 112.85. Down 1% today and almost 6%
move yesterday. [music] The hostilities
resumed in the last 24 hours, but it
also demonstrated just how committed
[music] both sides were to trying to
maintain some kind of ceasefire. They're
hanging on the ceasefire literally by a
thread, but to [music] John Leebers
point you do see both sides at least
having a discussion behind the scenes.
The issue of course is going to be the
Strait of Hormuz.
>> [music]
>> Does Iran offer any pathway for the
United States to be able to guide or
escort at some point ships out [music]
of the Strait of Hormuz and what does
that mean in terms of where do they
decide to put nuclear in terms of the
pecking order of what to be discussed
[music] at the table?
>> Every single morning for the last 2
months the first thing before I checked
has been the commodity market. That's
starting to change for me in the last
few days. Starting to turn to fixed
income [music] just a little bit more.
Not going to say the stress emerging
here, but I think it's noticeable we've
taken out the highs of the year on tens,
on 30s, on a closing basis. 30s are five
still this morning.
>> Yeah, Mike Wilson at Morgan Stanley says
4 and 1/2% on that 10 year is the line
that really [music] starts to matter for
US equities. We are almost there. We're
eight basis points away from that. This
really speaks to the longer term oil
expectations. When you take a look at
the December contracts [music] and see
how high they've gotten. We're talking
almost three digit barrel three digit
prices on oil at the end of this year.
[music] That is something that this bond
market cannot ignore.
>> 30s at 5% tens close to 450. It's what
Mascanico calls the danger zone, right?
It's like right there, right now,
looking at that danger zone this
morning.
>> he's still bullish. Max overweight. From
the last time I read Max's [music]
notes. Three hours away from the open,
and we'll also get some single names,
some morning movers. Yahaira has more.
Hey, Yahaira. Hi, John. We start with
Palantir. It blew it out of the water
this quarter, posting a significant
[music] beats and a raise, but you
wouldn't know it by looking at the
stock, down 3% in the pre-market. And
what analysts are pointing out that is
that
>> [music]
>> it wasn't broad-based growth. You still
see government doing a lot of the heavy
lifting while its [music] US commercial
business continues to struggle to keep
up. Turning to another company posting a
beat and a raise, [music] but reacting
way more positively, shares of Pinterest
are up more than 16% in the pre-market
as it sees momentum
>> [music]
>> in its ad business due to AI. It's a
notable shift for this company, which
has posted
>> [music]
>> earnings misses for the past five
quarters. And we end on Intel. Those
shares also [music] rising in the
pre-market. They are up 4% on a
reporting that Apple is exploring
working with Intel [music] as well as
Samsung to build its processors for
devices in the [music] US. It's still
early days, and Apple is still locked in
with with [music] TSMC, but it speaks to
the tightness that we're seeing in the
chips market with a company like Apple
having to go out and find backup
options. John. Intel up 4%, Yahaira.
Thank you, appreciate it. On a
write-down this morning, the French oil
US around cease-fire appears to be
holding following a series of clashes in
the Persian Gulf. Hundreds of vessels
are now gathering there to buy as Iran
expands its control zone in the Strait
of Hormuz. Elsewhere, HSBC shares are
falling down 5% in London trading. The
bank's earnings missing estimates
following an unexpected fraud-related
credit loss in the UK. HSBC also
struggling with rising economic risk
stemming from the conflict in the Middle
East. And finally, Alphabet returning to
the European debt market, kicking off a
six-part bond sale. The Google parent
company looking to sell at least 3.5
billion dollars worth of bonds. The
longest portion of the deal has a note
maturing in 2063. This strikes me uh it
reminds me of something that Amanda
Lynam of Goldman Sachs said, that
ultimately the biggest problem for a lot
of investors is figuring out how to
allow some of this debt being issued
from the hyperscalers not to become too
significant a part of any one index. So,
expect these companies to go overseas.
Expect them to sell in Europe, in the
UK, over in Japan in order to raise
money in a myriad ways to fund the 725
billion dollars of capital expenditures
that they need to finance. That's the
reason why you're going to see all sorts
of creative financing. It's sort of like
a kid eating their peas. They don't
really want to eat peas. If you're going
to leave a lot of them, you want to
spread it out over here, over there,
over here, hide them under the mashed
potatoes.
>> into ice cream. And essentially, that's
kind of what's happening. Well, we're
going to get more ice cream on Wednesday
when we have the Treasury coming out,
massive debt issuance. And as we've
talked about earlier, much higher than
we were expecting from when they talked
about it last quarter. Um and they say
this is quote primarily due to lower
projected net cash flows. So, there's a
ton of debt this week coming to the
market.
>> crowding out. It gets a little bit more
interesting, right? The Treasuries when
it comes to the Treasury wants to come
to the market, too, potentially issuing
a lot more debt as well. And ultimately,
if you want to entice that investor
appetite, you've got to put up the yield
just a little bit. Maybe we see more of
that in the year ahead. I'm guessing
you're probably going to see more of
that all around, which as we were just
hearing from Jeff U, people are thrilled
about if you're a bond investor. It
doesn't mean you're going to demand less
yield, but all of a sudden you can get
income for the first time. What does
that mean though for borrowing costs
more generally? And that's the reason
why it was difficult for him to answer.
Would you buy long-term bonds if
potentially there's a policy error on a
central bank side because ultimately,
the fiscal response from both
hyperscalers and from governments
remains to be seen. More debt. We'll
come back to this a little bit later, of
course. I want to talk about crude,
Brent and WTI. Brent's around 113. What
a 24 hours we've seen. The US military
fighting off attacks in the Middle East,
facilitated the passage of two
US-flagged vessels. The US had to shoot
down seven small boats. At the same time
there were drone attacks in the UAE,
several missile alerts for the first
time since the ceasefire, and in a
separate incident as well, the UAE, an
oil tanker there, struck by drones.
That's just the last 24 hours, and still
this morning we're just about clinging,
holding on to that ceasefire. Jorge Leon
of Rystad Energy joins us now for more.
Jorge, welcome to the program. It's
surprising to some that we're still here
at 112 on Brent, WTI at 104. And maybe
the question is, why aren't we higher?
Why are we still so low?
Thank you for having me. Um well, that's
that's the big question I I think, and I
think the way I think about it is, we
are in a much better situation than four
weeks ago. Let's not Let's not forget
that we're now in the fourth week of the
ceasefire. The ceasefire has sort of
hold steady, right? I mean, we haven't
seen much action, and we knew that the
ceasefire by definition was always going
to be shaky. So So, I think that the
market now is expecting that this
ceasefire, even it is shaky, that it
will continue. And let's also not forget
that the diplomatic channel is still
open. We're hearing some exchanges of
proposal between Iran and the US, and
there seems to be an open communication
channel there. So, I think the
expectation from the market is that at
some point, uh you know, diplomacy will
take over, and and hopefully this will
be this will be resolved.
>> And that is the more favorable,
constructive perspective without a
doubt. And on a global basis, Goldman
Sachs notes that of course that oil
stocks on a global basis aren't yet at
critical levels, but they do say this,
it significantly understates the risk of
country product shortages. When you
strip away the global story and just
focus country to country, Jorge, where
are the problems starting to arise?
I think that for me the main problem is
kerosene in in Europe. I do think that
we're likely to have a problem in the
next in the next few weeks. We're seeing
now oil energy companies
uh and uh and uh operators mentioning
this, highlighting this risk. We've seen
a lot of flight cancellations in in
Europe uh in continental Europe. We've
seen some airlines charging um you know,
an extra fee for the future flights, and
we've seen a lot of cancellations. So, I
think that that is one very important
pressure point that we're likely to see
even more in the coming days and in the
coming weeks. That's for me the main
worrying thing. What kind of price
levels could we see if we do start to
see actual shortages start to manifest
in the European continent?
Sure. So, we have an extreme scenario
where if there is no resolution to this
conflict and this becomes a protracted
conflict, a prolonged conflict, and we
don't see a significant de-escalation or
or even a narrow deal sometime soon, we
think that oil prices could increase
above $180 per barrel during summer.
That is much higher than during the
Russia-Ukraine war, um and that is
likely, of course, to prompt a recession
in Europe for sure, and in parts of Asia
probably um at the global level we could
see um a reduction in in GDP growth from
3.1 3.0% to probably closer to 1.5%
growth. So, um there are these extreme
scenarios, and I think that we should
start also thinking about these tail
risk, these tail scenarios, because um
as I said, I remain optimistic that
diplomatic channels seems to be opened.
Our base case is that there is going to
be a narrow deal at the end of May, but
we should also think of those ex- you
know, other other scenarios where $180
per barrel is something that we could
easily see. What we're seeing isn't
necessarily demand destruction, but it's
simply an inability to transact in
business in certain places where there
are physical shortages. At what point do
you get more traditional demand
destruction just based on the level of
pricing?
I think we are actually seeing now
demand destruction at a certain point.
of course, not not massive.
Uh we are seeing um you know,
countries around the world implementing
measures to reduce oil consumption,
working from home, public
transportation, etc. etc. So, we are
seeing now demand destruction, but I
think that the the moment that you have
oil prices above 120, 130 dollars per
barrel, that is when really things start
heating up and you will see quite a bit
of demand destruction. Let me give you
one one interesting data point. Before
the war, we thought that oil demand was
going to grow by 1 million barrels per
day in 2026. Right now, we think that
oil demand is going to contract for the
first time since COVID by around 100,000
barrels per day. And I think that the
risk is skewed to the to the downside
there. So, we are seeing demand
destruction at the moment. We do see
though Diamondback saying they're going
to raise output immediately because of
how high oil prices are. Will we see
more oil companies step in if prices
continue to rise?
Um it very much depends on how long
prices will stay at these elevated
levels, but let's assume that they stay
for the next three to four months. We
will see some supply reaction, but let's
not forget that in the short term supply
is quite inelastic. Yes, we could see
a few hundred you know, a couple of
thousand barrels at the global level of
additional additional supply, probably
in the US, we could see more in Brazil,
we can see a little bit more in
Venezuela, probably, but it's quite
inelastic supply in the short term. And
also, let's not forget that the supply
disruption is closer to 15, 10 million
barrels per day. So, whatever additional
supply they might come, whether it's
200, 300,000 barrels per day, is minimal
in the big picture, right? Jorge, does
OPEC still have the same weight given
the fact that the UAE has left?
I think that's a great question.
I think OPEC is slightly weaker now that
the UAE has has left.
I think right now, regardless whether
the UAE left or not, right now the the
ability of OPEC to manage the market is
extremely limited because of the closure
of the Strait of Hormuz, but if I think
of a scenario where, you know, the
Strait of Hormuz reopens and we're in
2027, 2028, let's think about that, and
uh and I and I see OPEC with a lower
spare capacity because of the the fact
that the UAE has left, then that tells
me that OPEC will have less tools to
manage the market. So, I'm a little bit
worried about how efficient uh OPEC as
and uh particularly Saudi Arabia as this
central banker of oil markets role they
have can actually deliver and and ensure
stability in oil prices. Oha, it's good
to see you. Thanks for dropping by and
catching up with us. Oha Leona of Rystad
Energy. Every producer for themself once
this war is finished.
>> Absolutely. I mean, for the UAE, this
has been a long time coming, but you can
see for a lot of these countries,
especially if you don't have the kind of
finances the way Saudi Arabia does,
they're going to want to flood the zone.
We already see Iraq saying, "If you can
get our barrels out of the Strait of
Hormuz, they are cutting in basically in
half, 30%."
>> $3, unbelievable. There's going to be
some traders that are going to say,
"Yeah, I'll I'm game for that."
>> for the brave, right?
>> about to say, all you have to do is face
off with those speedy boats that are
coming towards you. No big deal. If
you're willing to do that, we got a deal
for you.
>> makes these severe things sound like
cartoons, right?
These speedy boats. These super quick
These super quick boats.
>> look, some of this could be really
characterized as a cartoon. It is
anything but, and it has very real
real-world impacts. Brent crude this
morning, 112.80. We're down by 1%. Let's
get you an update on stories worldwide
this morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Bonnie Quinn has more. Hey, Bonnie. Hey,
John.
>> [music]
>> Apple is holding exploratory discussions
about using Intel and Samsung to produce
its processors for its US devices.
Sources are saying to us here at
Bloomberg the iPhone maker held
early-stage talks with Intel and
Samsung, but no orders have been made
yet.
TikTok owner ByteDance says it will be
charging some users for its new AI
chatbot. Fees will range from $10 a
month for the basic version to more than
$70 [music]
for more sophisticated platforms.
Indian Prime Minister Modi's BJP winning
a historic landslide in West Bengal.
[music]
It ends 15 years of rule by the previous
Chief Minister. The win underscoring the
BJP's broadening support [music] base
beyond traditional strongholds in the
north and west.
That is your Bloomberg Brief, John.
Ivonne, thank you. More from Ivonne in
about [music] 30 minutes into the next
hour. And next on the program, Robin
Brooks to policy.
The risk to both of our mandate goals
has increased. Heightened uncertainty
from uncertainty from the Middle East
conflict present an unusual set of
circumstances. And next we catch up with
Jane Foley of Rabobank live from New
York City. You're watching Bloomberg TV.
[music]
So here's the state of play. Equities
bouncing back back by a third of 1% on
the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq up by 0.6. On
the Russell we're hot by 0.5. And the
commodity markets setting the tone for
the market in the last 24 hours or so.
Brent crude bouncing back to 113. Love
it this morning by 1.3%. But this move
in the bond market holds. Two's 10s 30s
very close to the highs of the year on
10s and 30s. On 30s we're right there.
North of 5% on 30s for the first [music]
time since July. People were saying this
is really a led by the term premium. It
isn't led by break even rates. That has
been true perhaps until now. When you
take a look at 10-year break even rates,
they've reached the highest level going
back to 2023. Not [music] anything to
write home about 2 and 1/2% not
necessarily terrible but still well
above that 2% target. Is this a Federal
Reserve tacitly acknowledging that the
new target is something closer to 2 and
1/2%? Or is this the market just slowly
creeping, sending a signal that
inflation is going to be higher for
longer?
>> has been ignoring 2% for how long now?
More than 5 years.
>> Okay. We heard from President Williams
yesterday. We'll hear from him again in
just [music] a moment. President
Williams has been saying the same thing
over and over again for the last 5
years.
We're on the path [music] back to 2%.
We're on the path back to 2%.
>> In 2067. Right.
>> Ultimately, this is a Federal Reserve
that has tacitly acknowledged that a 2
to 3% range is okay. Do they formalize
that? Or do they tighten the screws that
much [music] more? Ultimately, if
inflation is a choice, are we just
choosing a new target?
>> Under Savannah's this morning, growing
risks to policy.
The risks to both of our mandate goals
has increased. The elevated levels of
inflation, mixed signals from the labor
market, and heightened uncertainty from
uncertainty from the Middle East
conflict present an unusual set of
circumstances.
But the current stance of monetary
policy is well-positioned to balance the
risks to our maximum employment and
price stability goals. So, here's the
latest this morning. The Federal Reserve
facing an uncertain path forward with a
growing number of policymakers leaning
towards a more cautious approach. James
Bullard of Rabobank writing, "It is our
view that the Fed will be led by
Williams into cutting rates further
later this year." James joins us now for
more. James, welcome to the program.
Where is the support for that going to
come from? Who on the committee is going
to join him? And what is the argument
going to be?
Well, I think you can add a lot of
different factors into there. You can
add in the AI, the productivity stories.
You've You've got to You've got to see
some weakness in the labor market, I
think, for that view to
to really get extra traction. And of
course, the political element, assuming
that Williams
does get approved as as governor. But
you know, I I I I would agree that the
the the the Fed will not
explicitly say that they're allowing the
inflation target to be higher because Uh
you know, they want to keep inflation
expectations anchored. and and to uh to
do that, they will carry on saying that
they're they're still targeting uh 2%
but um you know, it it's rather easy
right now that they will see sufficient
weakness in the labor market um to push
forward. But clearly, there's a lot of
risks to that view.
>> Uh Jane, this came from Neil Dutta of
Ran Mac. Lisa was talking about him
earlier on in the program. I'll share
the quote with you. Delivering on the
dovish policy the president wants will
probably take on a much different
meaning than at the time Kevin Warsh was
nominated. Neil goes on to say, "It
means keeping the policy rate from
climbing, balancing the tensions of
higher spot inflation against cooling
real activity. Keeping the policy rate
from climbing might be viewed as
sufficiently dovish later this year
given where inflation might be, Jane."
What do you think about that?
Well, you got to put that in context
with all the other G10 central banks.
So, right now, if you look at the whole
list of G10 central banks, you know, the
market pricing is suggesting that
they're all going to hike in the say the
next 6 months with the exception perhaps
of of the Swiss apart from the Fed. So,
if in that context, it is already
dovish. But you know what? That's been
the case all year. So, we go back to to
February before this conflict and and
policy rates were only confident of the
Bank of England and the Fed cutting
interest rates uh further this year
already. So, in market policy rates in
February, we already implying that there
was a
the market wasn't that uncomfortable
with the view that all of the those
other central banks could be hiking as
their next policy move, albeit probably
next year, not this year as as the
market is now expecting. It seems like
there's a divergence right now, Jane,
between bond markets that seem to be
pricing in a significant chance of even
the discussion of a rate hike at the
Federal Reserve. They are pricing in a
rate hike at the ECB, but they have
reduced their expectations for how much
the ECB is going to hike rates. There's
a sense that people are viewing the Fed
as more hawkish and the ECB marginally a
little bit more dovish than a couple of
weeks ago. And yet, currency markets are
not reflecting that at all. If anything,
the dollar has underperformed what a lot
of people would have expected it to do
given the sort of risk-off feel that's
been underpinning some of the oil
markets in particular. How do you
explain that?
I think there's two different stories
here, and I think first of all, there
was the safe haven story for the dollar,
and we saw that really playing out at
the very start of this conflict, so the
dollar performing really well in March.
And of course, the market had gone into
this conflict short dollar, so you saw
this
short covering, the dollar went up, and
then of course, last month in April,
those gains were unwound. And meanwhile,
there was also a very significant story
going on with this sort of readjustment
of policy rates. So, for instance, if
you look at the performance of G10
currencies since the start of the
conflict, you know, sterling is right up
there. You might think, "Well, that's
unusual, isn't it? You know, there's
local elections coming up this week. Um,
you know, that's not going to be good
for the government. Why has sterling
performed so well?" Well, it's simply
because the adjustment in policy rates,
and I think we all know this now, you
know, was so significant. The market
went from pricing in cuts to pricing in
of as many as four interest rate hikes,
and perhaps it's still too aggressive.
And I think this is one of the things
that's going to carry on playing out.
And you know, you've just pointed this
out with respect to the ECB. The market
has backtracked a little bit on those
initial rate hike fears. I think perhaps
there's more to go, particularly for
sterling or for the for the Bank of
England on that front because these
economies are oil importing economies.
And and these economies are likely to be
hit harder than the US by the impact of
inflation and and and the impact of this
supply shock. And and there's still this
story playing out in money market rates,
and that's still going to be reflected
in foreign exchange.
>> Just based on growth differentials, are
you surprised the dollar isn't doing
better?
I I think the dollar can hold up maybe
better. I mean, if we look back to say
last April, if we look back over the
last 12 months, the dollar has been
clouded by a whole load of negative
sentiment really built around this whole
de-dollarization story, this whole oh,
you know, the dollar failed to act as a
safe haven last April on the on the
heels of the tariff announcements from
from President Trump.
You know, that that Trump wants a a
weaker dollar.
There's a whole host of negativity
surrounded by the dollar and I think,
you know, going into this year or going
into really
even last month, that the market is
still sort of overshadowed by that. But,
if we look into the medium-term, if we
look at the the tech investment, if we
think about productivity gains, if we
think about the you know, the advantages
that that will give US trade over the
next, I don't know, 10, 20, 30 years,
there are still some really strong
positive US economic stories there which
can ultimately, I think, you know,
really help support the US dollar over
the medium-to-longer term. I think Japan
would like a weaker dollar as well based
on the last week we've just seen. Hey. I
think that they would pay for it. In
fact, they've been trying to pay for it
and let's see if it works. Hey James,
it's good to see you. Thank you. James
Farley there of Rabobank. We hit 160,
closed at that level last Wednesday. The
Japanese stepped into the FX market the
past 3 days. Yen weakness, not big
moves, but just Yen weakness starting to
come back into the market over the last
three sessions.
>> If this is a Bank of Japan that's not
going to hike rates, well, they're not
going to be able to stave off the
general weakening trend that we've seen
in the face of higher inflation, given
the concerns that markets have that
ultimately this is an overly dovish
administration. You're going to see that
kind of bond vigilanteism around the
world. Again, one of the reasons why
you're seeing yields creep higher.
You're getting batted by terms of trade
shock.
One-off intervention might stop the tide
a little bit, a day here, a day there,
but the trend the trend still pretty
brutal if you're not hiking interest
rates. Burning money makes sense if you
can increase if you can decrease the
inflationary input from imports for a
longer period of time. Burning money
does not work when it lasts for
literally a day. So, we'll have to see
exactly how much tolerance there is for
that.
>> Dolly Yen around [music] 158 this
morning. Coming up next, we'll catch up
with Tracy McMillan of Wells Fargo,
Victoria Coates of the Heritage
Foundation, Gil Luria
>> [music]
>> of D.A. Davidson, and Torsten Slok of
Apollo about AI and the labor market.
That's going to be an interesting one
about an hour from now. [music] From New
York City this morning, good morning.
The second hour of Bloomberg
Surveillance just around the corner.
The US economy [music] is unbelievably
resilient.
>> The job market seems to be undeterred so
far. The balance of risk is actually
shifting more to the inflation side.
>> The Fed is again kind of caught between
a rock and a hard place.
>> We're [music] only forecasting one cut
in 2027 now. This is Bloomberg
Surveillance with Jonathan Ferro, Lisa
Abramowicz, and Anne Marie Hoardern.
Live [music] from New York City this
morning. Good morning. Good morning for
our audience worldwide. The second hour
of Bloomberg Surveillance starts right
now and your price action and scores
look like this. Bouncing back [music]
from pretty muted losses yesterday up a
third of 1% on the S&P 500 up 0.6 on the
Nasdaq [music] crude. An almost 6% move
on Brent in yesterday's session. Some
real tension boiling over in the Middle
East yesterday [music] taking Brent
crude higher. This morning lower by 1%
to 113. And these moves in the bond
market, 10s and 30s, yields new highs
for the year on a closing basis. 10s
>> [music]
>> just short of 443. 30s still north of 5%
heading into a week full of economic
data including data later this morning.
PMIs [music] in America, 9:45 Eastern,
10:00 a.m. Job openings and the ISM. Is
good news potentially going to
exacerbate [music] the sell-off? I don't
want to say it's bad news. We all
welcome the idea of a labor market that
is strong, of manufacturing and services
that are strong. Nonetheless, the
strength has really put attention a a
feature on how long oil prices can
remain high without inflation taking
off. That's the reason why you see in
the bond market the tension of both
issuance coming in and [music] robust
potential inflationary pressures coming
together with the highest yields we've
seen all year. This week's a big week
for the job market. The data on Friday
important in [music] that regard.
Payrolls just around the corner. Two
headlines back-to-back just crossed on
the Bloomberg. Getting our attention.
[music] This from Coinbase.
Planning to cut the workforce by about
14%. PayPal planning job cuts as well.
Those headlines just starting to build.
>> [music]
>> Just on the margin. So, here's the why.
On one hand you could say Bitcoin's been
battered. Coinbase hasn't necessarily
seen the promise [music] as much. So,
maybe that's the reason why they're
cutting back. But, the number two,
AI. They're blaming AI. They're saying
AI is changing how we work. This is
Brian Armstrong, the CEO of Coinbase out
on Twitter earlier. Over the past year
I've watched engineers use AI to ship in
days what used to take a team weeks. He
went back to say we need to return to
the speed and focus of our startup
founding with AI at our core. We heard
this [music] from Block. How many more
CEOs are going to use this as an excuse?
Is it an excuse or is it a fundamental
shift in the labor market that
highlights how AI could cannibalize from
existing jobs?
>> What's the phrase people are using?
AI-washing. Was Block AI-washing? Is
this [music] AI-washing?
At the same time, this is something that
a lot of people are saying. And when you
take a look at what you can actually do
with the tools, I go home every night to
a lecture on Claude. Claude could do
this. Can you? No, I can't. So, at a
certain point you start wondering
>> so happy I don't live in your household.
[laughter] I don't need I don't want any
more lectures on
But, PayPal saying that they're cutting
because they pursue a turnaround [music]
strategy. Remains to be seen if that is
because of AI. But, AI potentially could
be this useful excuse if maybe [music]
you also were hoarding up some of your
labor. And now's a good time that you
want to potentially lay off some
individuals. And now you can say, "Well,
actually we're making it more
efficient."
>> Some AI-washing. Maybe in the labor
market. We'll spend some time on this
later this hour with Toussaint Slog.
Equity futures [music] on the S&P
positive by 0.3%. Coming up this hour
we'll catch up with Tracy McMillan of
Wells Fargo as equities bounce. The
former deputy national security advisor
Victoria Coates as tensions build ahead
of the Trump Xi summit and Torsten Slok
of Apollo expecting AI to create more
jobs than it cuts. That's a timely
conversation. We begin this hour with
stocks grinding higher as tech faces
another earnings test later on today.
Tracy McMillan of Wells Fargo writing
earnings beats and guidance are strong
as investors focus on AI spending
levels, ROI, and adoption pace. Tracy
joins us now for more. Tracy, welcome to
the program. Just share some numbers
with us. How powerful has this earning
season been already?
Good morning, John. It's been a
spectacular earning season so far and
what we're seeing is earnings
approaching 25% on the quarter and we
came into the quarter with analysts
expecting about half that number. So, it
really has been an exceptional earning
season and enough so for investors to
compartmentalize what's happening in the
Middle East with the war for the most
part and focus on those earnings and
push prices higher. So, Tracy, a lot of
people have pointed to a handful of
names that have supported that earnings
growth. What does the median stock look
like? And with that in mind, why is the
equal weight S&P underperforming as much
as it has been more recently?
Yeah, we've definitely seen a
reconcentration
in the stocks that are outperforming and
that's because during the earning season
what we're what we're seeing is that
those are the stocks that are really um
exceeding investor expectations in terms
of growth and we have also seen because
of the war growth expectations coming in
um from economists you know, across
various uh firms and so when that
happens investors look for growth. When
growth growth becomes scarce investors
look for growth and that is what we
think we're seeing here. Tracy, have we
already seen the best of this rally? I
mean, is it over? I ask after Ajay Raj
of Barclays came on at the end of last
week and said he had been really bullish
on this equity market, was moving more
neutral just because the pain is going
to start biting now from higher oil
prices.
Yeah, it's really not unusual after such
a strong rally to see a pullback in
stocks. And you know, right now what we
are forecasting is moderate growth and
higher inflation with probably a four
handle across the the coming months. And
that is if the the war
begins to wrap up. And if we see a
continuation of the war, then we've got
to look at those more negative scenarios
where the best might be behind us for
this year.
So, what does it mean for the war to
wrap up? Right now we're having a debate
in real time about whether it's a
ceasefire or not a ceasefire as people
lob missiles at one another. Is a status
quo enough to actually create a more
benevolent backdrop for risk assets?
So, we probably are going to need to see
more ships passing through the strait in
order for it really to be a more
attractive environment for
equity prices to move higher because we
are getting to the point where there's
going to be some demand destruction and
you know, even some scarcity in parts of
the globe. And if we don't get the oil
flowing back through very soon, then
we're going to be confronted with even
higher prices and the possibility of
that higher inflation for a longer
period of time. Well, the president said
yesterday this is going to be a few more
weeks, at least two more weeks. When
would you need to see this in terms of
more ships pass through the Strait of
Hormuz
in order to have still this bullish
case?
Yeah, so we're already starting to see
those buffers erode. Um, the you know,
the um, stockpiles that countries have
have been utilizing in the face of the
scarcity that we're seeing in oil. So,
you know, maybe a couple more weeks, but
we have already seen enough damage that
it's going to take months, possibly
years in some cases, to repair some of
that damage. So, we expect elevated oil
prices,
but to your point about uh, the bullish
case, right now we are we're we're
anticipating about, you know, a mid
single digit uh, climb for the S&P 500
from here. So, not not terribly bullish
from from this point, but we do need to
see oil starting to flow again, or we're
going to have to um, look at a more
negative scenario. Tracy, I've got some
bonds to sell. So, bear with me, I'll
give you some numbers. We'll head over
to the UK and we'll start there. Yields
higher across the curve, playing
catch-up. The Brits were on vacation
yesterday. Two's up by 12, 10's up by
12, 30's up by 11 to 576 and the highest
yield we've seen going back to the late
1990s.
You got to go back to 1998. Tracy, are
you a buyer?
So, we are in the intermediate
investment grade space for US bonds, and
that is the primary area where we are
focused right now. We we feel like
long-term bonds continue to face uh,
some uh, pressure from potentially
higher inflation and higher rates. And
so, we've been pairing that and moving
that into equities on uh, equity
weakness. So, you know, intermediate
space, three to five three to five seven
years uh, US investment grade is where
we'd be buying. US specific, US and US
investment grade. Where does the UK and
the European story fit in at all?
So it it fits in
on the equity side. We're we're not
buyers of developed market bonds at this
point. We but we are buyers of developed
market equities and we're looking there
at defense names and financial names.
Financials are a large component of the
developed market index and so there
we're expecting a steepening yield curve
and again a negative for bonds but
potentially positive for financials.
>> Tracy, financials just to finish on
that. Over at Wells Fargo seems to be a
high conviction equity sector call for
you guys. Where does the confidence come
from?
Yeah, [snorts] it's coming from that
steepening yield curve and we're already
starting to see that with with the
yields rising. It's also coming from
deregulation in the background helping
margins and we also think that there's
going to be a re-acceleration in M&A and
that should help investment banks.
Tracy, appreciate Got it. Thanks for the
update. Tracy McMillan there of Wells
Fargo. I was trying to sell some UK
gilts. Tracy's not buying. I don't think
a lot of people are buying which is the
reason we've got the highest yields
going back to 1998. The United Kingdom
in a uniquely terrible place because on
one hand you've got the inputs of higher
energy costs and then there's a question
about political turmoil whether Keir
Starmer is going to remain Prime
Minister, whether they're going to have
to sell more debt, what the next
leadership's going to look like and will
there be a fiscal response to an energy
crisis which is the ultimate fear for a
lot of bond vigilantes. And it's not
exactly confidence in Starmer, it's fear
of whatever comes next.
That's what the leadership jitters are
about. Essentially, do you end up with a
much more fiscally liberal type of
person who is going to spend and
potentially try to raise money that way,
raise money through taxes, maybe just
end up with
>> a different result at the same time.
Yeah. We can go into that in a bit.
Another time. Yes, indeed. Another time.
30s this morning over in the UK the long
end of the curve at 5.76. Yields up 11
basis points, numbers we haven't really
seen since the late 1990s. Let's give
you an update on stories elsewhere this
morning with your Bloomberg brief.
Vonnie [music] Quinn has more. Hey,
Vonnie. Hey, John. Thank you. Officials
are investigating a shooting near the
Washington Monument. The Secret Service
says law enforcement shot an
unidentified man after he opened fire on
them. [music] The alleged gunman was
hospitalized. A teenager was also shot,
but not seriously hurt.
The SEC [snorts] says it's investigating
allegations of fraud in US private
credit companies. Chairman Paul Atkins
told the Milken conference in Beverly
Hills they're taking the allegations
seriously, but declined to say
specifically which companies are under
scrutiny.
Nearly a month into a fragile ceasefire
in the Middle East, the US and Iran
exchanged fire on Monday in the Persian
Gulf. US Central Command says the
military fought off Iranian drones,
missiles, and small armed boats
>> [music]
>> as it guided two US-flagged vessels
through the Strait of Hormuz.
That is your Bloomberg brief, John. Hey,
Vonnie. Thank you. Appreciate it. And
next on the program, China on the
horizon.
We're leading China in AI.
And I'm going to go see President Xi in
2 weeks. I look forward to that, but
uh it'll be actually it'll be a very
important trip.
In just a moment, we'll catch up with
the former [music] Deputy National
Security Advisor Victoria Coates live
from New York City this morning. Good
morning.
45 minutes away, [music] we should get a
briefing from the Defense Department.
We'll bring you the headlines from that
a little bit later in the next hour.
[music] After that, in the following
hour, lots of economic data starts to
come through. PMIs at 9:45 Eastern time,
[music] the ISM and job openings data at
10:00 a.m. Job openings a little bit
dated, but sets the stage for the data
through the week. [music] ADP tomorrow,
claims Thursday, payrolls this coming
Friday.
>> What does this market do if [music] this
is a hotter-than-expected labor market
print or labor market week, I should
say, given all of the data points
leading up to that? Is that embraced as
a sign [music] of resilience for the US
economy, or does that give a sense of
heat underpinning some of the resilience
that could potentially cause the
increase in oil prices to be more
inflationary [music]
than they are a suppression to growth?
That's the tension underpinning markets
right now.
>> Hello, Kevin Walsh, and welcome to the
Federal Reserve.
Right, what's your first job? What's the
first mission? Six months ago, it was
cut interest [music] rates. Let's see if
the new guy can cut interest rates six
months later. I think Neil Dutta has now
done the new mission, is to stop
everyone else from pushing to hike.
Yeah, and potentially coming up with
some sort of new [music] framework. My
question, if I could be anything, I
would be the fly on the wall in a
conversation, in the lunch between Kevin
Warsh [music] and Scott Bessent. What
are they planning to do with a
Treasury-Fed Accord, with the issuance
that we're expecting [music] from the
Treasury Department, with potentially
how the Fed's going to rearrange their
balance sheet, and then how they're
going to look to AI to somehow give them
justification to cut rates? It is a
difficult brew, and they probably got to
sit on their hands for a while.
>> So, we get the Treasury
quarterly refunding statement and the
announcement about where this is going
to fall across various maturities. A lot
of it is in T-bills. Thank you, Janet
Yellen, for that one.
Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent said he
would change things. They've not
changed.
>> [music]
>> And the pressure, based on where things
are, where rates are today,
pressure is going to be to maintain
[music] a status quo, which puts a lot
of pressure on short rates, and
ultimately the Fed policy rate
when it comes to where the Fed is and
where government borrower costs are.
This is another way to financialize the
balance sheet. Essentially, if you shift
it all to the front of the yield curve,
and then you have the central bank
putting their thumb on the scale of what
exactly the rates [music] are, then you
can potentially lower the borrowing
costs of the United States. Does it
become at the expense of the dollar?
Does it become Does it Where is the sort
of
uh release valve in that type of
scenario? These are the scenarios people
are trying to game out as they figure
out who is Kevin Warsh. We'll find out.
In the next month or so, might be.
Equity futures on the S&P up by 0.3 on
the S&P 500. On the Nasdaq, back by 0.5.
[music] Talked about these crude prices,
still elevated. Brent at 113, lower
today by about 0.7% but trimming those
losses. WTI at around 105. [music]
Under Savannah's this morning, China on
the horizon.
We're leading China in AI.
And I'm going to go see President Xi in
2 weeks. I look forward to that, but
I'll say I'm leading. We have
We have friendly We have very friendly
competition.
But uh it'll be actually it'll be a very
important trip.
Here's the latest this morning.
President Donald Trump and Chinese
leader Xi Jinping preparing to meet as
the two countries navigate tensions over
trade and technology. Bloomberg's Dana
Canedo has more. Come on, Dana.
Hey John, good morning. Well, President
Trump is signaling that the trip is
still on after previously delaying the
planned visit due to the conflict in
Iran. That means we're a little over a
week away, May 14th, from this highly
anticipated visit where senior
administration official tells me that
trade is still expected to be front and
center. In fact, both sides have
signaled an openness to establish a new
mechanism to make sure that economic
dialogue stays open, potentially
announcing a new US-China Board of Trade
during the visit. But of course, the
tensions in the Middle East are
threatening to derail or overshadow any
potential progress. As we know, both
sides have been jockeying for leverage.
This White House has been trying to put
on the pressure on Beijing to help
reopen the Strait of Hormuz as data
shows us that nearly 38% of total oil
flows through the waterway go to the
country. And it's actually not just the
White House. In fact, we saw Congress
take some serious steps last month to
advance a flurry of legislation that
seeks to tighten export curbs when it
comes to AI technology going to Beijing.
Now, of course, China has taken its own
series of steps in the past few weeks
including what was considered an
unprecedented act of defiance just the
other day urging companies not to abide
by US sanctions on private refiners that
are linked to Iranian oil. And John knew
this morning, China confirming that it
has invited Iran's foreign minister for
a visit tomorrow for the first time
since the war began. Tanda Tendo, how
connected are these two stories? Tanda,
thank you. Joining us now the former
deputy national security advisor
Victoria Coates. Victoria, welcome back
to the program. Lisa's asked about this,
Amaris asked about this, I've asked
about this. How connected are the
stories? The meeting in the middle of
this month between the Chinese and US
leader and the war in the Middle East.
Well, great to be with all of you, John.
Good morning. I think I mean actually
the headline is the meeting next week
because you know, we you've been talking
all morning about the oil prices, the
war in Iran, the effect that has on the
global economy. What happens between the
United States and China is exponentially
more important for the global economy.
And so I think that that's why President
Trump is keeping this trip on the books.
We're seeing the preparations start in
Beijing. So I think he's going to go
there and try to as Tyler was just
reporting come up with a new mechanism
to make sure the trade stays under
control. But also to see if we can get
some conflict resolution before it even
begins with China because nothing could
be more devastating than a conflict
between the United States and China.
That's what I think the president wants
to prevent. But the Treasury Secretary
said yesterday on Fox News, let's see
them step up some diplomacy and get the
Iranians to open the straight. Is this
going to be an ask from the President of
the United States on the Iranians are
they getting ahead of it with already
inviting Abbas Araghchi to Beijing to
have a meeting with Yang Yi tomorrow.
Yes, I think the the visit of of Araqchi
to Beijing tomorrow is extremely
important because bear in mind this is
hurting China, too. I've talking a
little bit about those teapot refineries
that they depend on for kind of cheap
bootleg fuel going into the Chinese
economy. So, they need those those
tankers to come out. That reverse
blockade that President Trump put on
Iran is hurting China more than anybody
else. So, I don't know that this is an
ask from President Trump as much as it
is an ask from Chairman Xi that that
Iran get the situation resolved so that
oil can start flowing to them again.
Tyler also mentioned this unprecedented
stance, really defiance from China to
basically tell some of these private
refineries to ignore US sanctions. Does
OFAC need to come down hard on these to
make a statement?
Oh, I think so and I think they will
because you know the
in China you have this kind of dual
universe where they pretend these things
are private. Pretty much everything is
is public in China, is controlled by the
government and that's what they're
demonstrating here that they can force a
private industry to take the risk of US
sanctions because they need that energy
to get onto their markets. So, I think
that really shows you that they are
hurting from this and that US sanctions
are one of the most powerful economic
tools on the planet.
>> In the meantime, Victoria, we've learned
something over the past couple of days
and that is that the bar to restart real
active warfare is incredibly high. Do
you have a sense how high that bar is?
What could actually trigger a restart of
kinetic warfare?
Well, I think it would probably take
some kind of more spectacular Iranian
attack because my understanding from the
administration is they think the
economic pressure on Iran is becoming
just devastating that it's not
sustainable and we've gone through these
metrics before but it gets worse every
week. You know, we're in month three
with no internet, no stock market.
You know, they they just the entire
economy has ground to a halt and as they
run out of storage for their oil, you
know, that problem is going to become
even more acute. And so you're you're
looking at an economy that's that's on
the verge of collapse. So I think the
administration's view is they don't need
to restart major kinetic activities
right now. They can let that pressure
continue to build and we have seen some
shifting on Iran's position on the
nuclear file. They're starting to say
some things that were completely
impossible, off the table 3 weeks ago,
are now suddenly something they'll
consider. It's not the deal the
president wants, so I don't think he's
going to accept it, but it shows they're
starting to move as that pressure
builds. Victoria, it seems like the
pressure is building for President Trump
as well. A recent poll from ABC
Washington Post and Ipsos showed his
approval rating at record his
disapproval rating at record low. How
much do you see this as forcing the end
of some sort of conflict, especially
heading into the midterm elections?
Yeah, that's certainly obviously a
consideration. The president is a
politician. We we are going into
midterms, so you know, the the notion
that we that that's not being taken into
consideration is is disingenuous to put
it lightly. But I think at the same
time, I they do have time on their side
compared to the Iranians. And if the
Iranians wait this out as it were to the
point that they they face that kind of
systemic economic collapse, then you
know, they're they're going to cease to
exist as a regime. So, you know, I think
they face a harder decision than the
administration does. And certainly the
fact that the president is keeping the
trip to China on the books demonstrates
that, you know, he's he's coming at this
from a position of strength. He doesn't
feel tethered to the White House. He
feels he can do other things on the
global diplomatic stage. Victoria, what
is though the pain threshold for this
administration because if you look at
AAA national average today, it's
basically $4.50. We're We're very close
to $5 a gallon. And of course, if we hit
that mark, then he would surpass the
high that we saw under the Biden
administration. I imagine that is what
they are trying to avoid.
Oh, of course. And nobody wants these,
you know, these elevated prices over the
long term. I mean, the American people
shouldn't be feeling this pain given our
role as one of the world's major energy
producers. Uh but at at the same time,
you know, that this is is something
that's being caused by Iranian actions.
You know, the elevation of prices under
President Biden had very different
sources. In this case, you know, we have
an international situation that needs to
be managed. It is as the President has
put it, an investment on the part of the
American people to get out from this
this threat from Iran that we've been
laboring under for 47 years now. They've
been threatening to do this periodically
for I don't know, 50 years. So, I think
breaking that threat, preventing them
from using this as leverage in the
future is certainly worth this effort
now. Victoria, always good to see you.
Thanks for making time for us. Victoria
Coates there, the former Deputy National
Security Advisor. The blockade makes a
hell of a lot more sense than the
absence of one. The idea that at the
very beginning of this war that Iran
were the only ones being able to use the
Strait of Hormuz made absolutely no
sense at all.
>> not only that. Not only were they
allowed to use the Strait of Hormuz, but
OFAC [music] at that moment, remember,
for a few weeks time, said it was legal
to buy Iranian crude that was already on
water. And we saw countries like India
do that, which haven't done that in
years. Brent crude 113, [music] WTI
around 104, 105. Up next, we'll catch up
with Gil Luria of DA Davidson cutting
his Palantir price target. Plus, you
Harris has got your morning movers.
Coinbase rising after [music] announcing
layoffs. That stock is up by close to
4%.
>> [music]
>> Just spent the last 3 minutes, best of
the last 3 minutes, [music] 2 to 3
minutes. I can get back to the absence
of Knicks coverage. You want to do it
now? [music] No, it was just an
incredible game.
>> Game one. What do you want to do?
>> an incredible game.
>> Okay, what was the score?
One, hold on, I got to find it now. I
don't have it up. I was waiting for it.
Prep next time. Come on. Futures
positive on the S&P [music] by a third
of 1%. On the Nasdaq, we look like this,
up by 0.5. On the Russell, up by 5.5.
That is never happening again.
>> [laughter]
>> In the commodity market, WTI up by
>> 98. I thought it was 137. It's past
wrong commodities. We're talking about
crude. 113 on Brent, WTI 104. Yields
closing high of the year in yesterday's
session. 10s this morning, 443. 2s at
394. It's not just the US, the UK
playing catch-up. The market was closed
yesterday. This morning, higher across
the curve, up by 13 basis points at the
front end of the UK curve. 30s at the
long end. 576, [music] the highest since
1998.
And you keep asking people who come on,
and you'll keep asking people who come
on, are you are you in the mood for some
UK
>> [laughter]
>> 30-year Yeah, 30-year yields at 5.76%?
[music]
The answer so far this morning, no, I'm
good. I'm actually just fine. And this
just raises the concept of how much
there's kind of a buyer strike of
[music] long-term debt in certain
places, and where that leads us in terms
of yields,
we're all watching in real time. And the
outlook for growth is pretty dreadful in
Europe right now. The Germans have come
out, I think, forecasting something
closer to 0% [music]
than 1, maybe something in between.
You'd think that's a decent argument
behind the long end of these curves, and
you're not seeing that buying
step in, in a big [music] way anyway.
Because of the fiscal response that
potentially could come down the pike,
you have Germany that at one point was
saying no debt, and now is saying some
debt for defense spending. At what point
do they open the purse strings [music] a
little bit further? We see this across
Europe. Maybe they should, or should
have been maybe 5 years ago, and this is
a bit of catch-up as they try to build
out their [music] ecosystem. Do you want
to redeem yourself? Well, look, the
score was so big, I had to remember how
big it was. 137 to 98. Jamie Berlin, we
won our last two games by a combined 90
points. Last three games by 119 combined
points, [music] and first team to win
three straight playoff games by more
than 25 plus points. Jamie Berlin says
that domination.
>> Jamie Berlin being one of our producers.
>> Yes. [music] Who you reach out to just
to get stats from. Yeah, he was at the
game.
>> He was at the game last night.
>> at the game. So, if you watch
>> If you watch If you watch the playback
like I do in the morning, you could see
Jamie Berlin there. Incredible.
>> Okay, you're talking [music] about Jamie
like everyone knows who Jamie is.
Well, you do, so you can explain that.
Yeah.
>> They should. He's our number one Knicks
reporter.
>> Okay. All right. Equity futures on the
S&P, positive 5/3 of 1%. Shows off the
rails.
Let's get you some morning movers.
Some individual stocks, Yohara has more.
Hey, Yohara. Hi, John. I actually
learned something there, but [music] we
start with Coinbase. Those shares are
moving higher up 4% in the pre-market as
the company says AI is helping it run
leaner. So, it is cutting 14% [music] of
its workforce with CEO Brian Armstrong
pointing to more workflows being
automated. We will [music] hear more
from this company when it reports
earnings on Thursday. And like the last
name, PayPal is also cutting jobs.
Shares are slightly higher in the
pre-market trimming some gains [music]
part of a turnaround around it's under
its new CEO targeting around 1 and 1/2
billion dollars in cost savings. And
while AI [music] was not cited here as a
reason for the cuts, I will note that
the company just last week announced a
new leader focused on AI and
simplification. And we end on something
more physical, Anheuser-Busch. Those
shares are rising nearly 7% [music] in
the pre-market after volumes grew for
the first time since 2023. This [music]
is notable as brewers are struggling
with people pulling back on beer due to
health concerns, but demand [music]
stayed strong especially across Latin
America, and it is expecting to see a
boost due to the World Cup this summer.
John. Yohai, thank you. Thank you very
much. More from Yohai
in the next [music] hour or so. On our
radar this morning, the fragile US Iran
ceasefire is holding after the two
nations exchange fire in the Persian
Gulf. Hundreds of vessels gathering near
Dubai as Iran tightens its grip on the
Strait of Hormuz, widening the control
zone in the waterway. Elsewhere, Apple
holding exploratory talks with Intel and
Samsung about producing main processor
for its devices in the US. Supply chain
disruptions pushing the iPhone maker to
consider alternatives to its current
chip partnership with TSMC. And finally,
the Trump administration is considering
an executive order to create an AI
working group to boost oversight. The
New York Times reporting one proposal
would include a government review
process for new models. So, I view this
as a direct response to a number of
polls that have come out. Even people
who voted for President Trump in the
previous election are feeling really
worried around artificial intelligence.
According to this one political poll,
only 13% of people who voted for Trump
in 2024 said the federal government
should stay out of regulating AI,
meaning the rest of them think that they
should get more involved and are getting
very concerned about how this looks. I
wonder how tied this is to mythos, given
the fact that they're concerned about
the potential cyber risk that's brewing.
And how do they get ahead of it, at
least from a PR stance, saying, "Look,
we have our finger on the pulse. We're
not just dropping the ball here."
>> think this is part of the problem. They
felt like I think they were behind when
it comes to mythos. So, now they are
trying to get their handle on a handle
on it, and you can't wait for Congress
to do this. They have basically become
obsolete when it comes to this debate.
It takes a very long time, so you have
to start some sort of working group. The
issue is, of course, we already have a
number of agencies working across very
advanced technology, especially the DOD.
So, it almost feels like they are losing
the grip here, and they are trying to do
something, maybe like to your point,
ahead of the midterm election.
>> Is this a midterms issue?
Uh definitely a 2028 issue. I think it
could become a mid-term issue depending
on if you see more announcements like
from Coinbase today that people are
losing their jobs because of artificial
intelligence or also because you're
building data centers and your
electricity bills are going up as it was
in the mid-midterms in New Jersey and
Virginia. On the margins everything's a
mid-term election issue. Although you
have to imagine that oil prices trump
this pretty significantly and maybe this
is just sort of lobbing something in
there to say, "Look, we're on it." And
try let's let's quiet this one as we
deal with these five.
>> This sector has a very bad branding
issue that it needs to address very
quickly with the electorate. Is it a
branding issue or is it what it could
actually do issue? I mean, this is part
of the problem. On one hand, they're
talking about how powerful it is and
that potential is going to increase the
entire United States ecosystem, entire
United States economy. On the flip side,
it's at the expense of jobs. I mean,
yes, Bitcoin skepticism aside, Coinbase
cutting 14% of its staff because it
wants to get back down to a startup
culture with AI. Says Coinbase.
Says Coinbase. All right, but we'll
probably see more of that, right? More
companies saying we're going to be more
efficient, we're using AI, we can we can
get rid of people, we can maybe hire
less. This is the fear. Whether it's
AI-washing, to use your phrase, which
I'm going to have to really think about,
or if it's something else, then we'll
have to see.
>> Not my phrase, by the way, but it seems
so much of it.
>> makes sense, but AI-washing? I mean, I
guess you could do it with AI. You could
do it with Grok. Tosin Sulaiman is going
to join us later. He's got his own
thoughts and some data on the labor
market. Let's talk about tech. Palantir
raising its revenue outlook but posting
disappointing US commercial sales. Gil
Luria of DA Davidson cutting his price
target on the stock and keeping a
neutral rating. Palantir is the best
story in all of software. Gil joins us
now for more. Gil, welcome to the
program. It's interesting that you
believe it's the best story in software
and yet you're still cutting the price
target. What does that tell you about
software just in general?
Well, yeah, for first of all, for
Palantir, fundamentals are really
divorced from valuation. When you have
valuations at 80 times, 90 times cash
flow, those things move independently of
the fundamentals. The fundamentals
Palantir report yesterday were
fantastic. 85%
growth at 60% operating margins. Just to
to give you context, there's no other
software company that's growing more
than 30% with 30% margin. So, Palantir
from a fundamental basis doing
phenomenally well, but when you trade at
multiples that are that high, you do
have a divergence between fundamentals
and valuation. And to your point,
because of all of software valuations
went down, we had to take our valuation
down somewhat as well. And this is where
Palantir's caught right now is there's
nothing they can do that impressive
enough for the market since they still
get categorized as a software company.
But to be clear, the quarter yesterday
was unbelievably good.
>> Okay, can we just talk about the growth?
Palantir's one of those strange
companies that so many people know the
name, but don't really know what they
do. Where's that growth coming from?
So, there's two parts. There's the
government and the commercial side that
are really separate from each other. But
first of all, it's not that complicated.
Palantir helps
government agencies and commercial
entities gather disparate data from
disparate sources to combine it for
decision-making around the most
important decisions. It's not that hard.
For the government, Department of War
has really been driving a lot of the
growth. They are increasingly relying on
Palantir for the most important things.
For managing combat operations, for
managing targeting, and and they're the
more they get rely on Palantir, the the
faster the growth, and the more it
encourages other entities outside the
federal government and in in some
international markets to embrace those
products. That's why the growth on the
government side. On the commercial side,
they are be they are able to cherry-pick
commercial customers,
one in an industry, and help them
transform their business, and then
capture some of that value. And their
customers are so happy
that the word of mouth is so good, they
don't even need to sell anymore. Most of
the activity on the commercial side from
Palantir is incoming, and they get to be
selective about those customers. So,
it's a really good place to be, and
they're more than doubling, especially
the US commercial growth, still more
than doubling, and they just said that
it'll continue to more than double this
year, and probably into next year. So,
they're having tremendous amount of
success adding value with AI to their
commercial customers. So, those are the
two drivers, government and commercial.
How big is the moat for Palantir verse
be versus being disrupted, and how much,
what percent of the software universe do
you think has a sizable moat that could
protect it from obsolescence over time
as AI gets better and better?
So, Palantir really has no peers right
now. There there are no other software
companies that can do what Palantir
does. The only risk somewhere down the
horizon is if OpenAI and Anthropic
decide to get into this business of of
making uh an impact at the enterprise
level, which would require them hiring a
lot of forward deployed engineers. So,
we're probably years away from that
being meaningful. For the rest of
software, the question's a lot more
nuanced. There are uh software companies
with some moats uh because they're
entrenched at their customers, what they
do is is harder to do with AI, and
there's a lot of software companies that
what they do is exactly what AI does,
and those are the companies that are
already being disrupted. It's it's a
very nuanced situation software, which
is why you've seen the whole category go
down, and only a few of the companies
are starting to emerge back up with
success, but it's it's definitely a uh a
minefield of investment has been for the
last 6 months and they'll continue to be
for the balance of the year. Yael, I
wonder how much is just an excuse for a
business model that seems to be flagging
as developments come versus truly AI
disrupting fundamentally so many
businesses. And I want to go to the idea
that we were just talking about about
Coinbase announcing that they were
cutting 14% of their staff because they
want to become more nimble and AI can do
the work of an entire team. How much
does this seem like AI washing to you
without going into the analysis of what
Coinbase does? And how much do you
really see this as becoming more the
norm as companies realize the power of
some of these tools?
It is both.
To be clear, it is both. These companies
have been running,
especially since COVID, with
organizations that were were too that
were too fat and they they had way too
much employment. Part of it is that
they're inherently very profitable
businesses, so they could afford to run
with staff that was too high. So, now as
growth slows down, they need to to find
a reason to cut costs and AI is a very
convenient reason. That is definitely
the case in a lot of these situations.
It was the case with Block, it's the
case with Coinbase, and we're going to
see more of that. Part of it is
companies that need to fund the
investment in AI. You're seeing that
with the hyperscalers, right? Everybody
from Microsoft to Meta to Google to
Amazon are cutting costs, are cutting
head count so they can afford to build
data centers. That's not AI making their
business better, that's them having to
pay for AI. And then there is some level
of productivity that we're already
starting to see, but I'd say that's the
smaller part. Software engineers are
more productive, and therefore we don't
need as many of them. Some other roles
AI has been able to replace some tasks,
so so there you don't need to hire quite
as many people, but that's just starting
to emerge. It will be more and more of
that, but as you'll hear from uh from uh
Torsten Slok soon, um that also means
companies, as they get more productive,
as their employees get more productive,
they're actually going to want to hire
more people. Because if you get more
return on labor, you want more labor.
So, there's a lot of moving pieces, but
I would say that if if I was to simplify
the response, it's still mostly AI
washing. Gil, thank you, buddy. Gil
Luria of D.A. Davidson, and thank you
for the promo Torsten Slok, just a few
moments away. Let's get an update on
stories worldwide with your Bloomberg
Brief. Vony Quinn has more. Hey, Vony.
Hey, John. Thank you. PayPal reporting
first quarter earnings that beat Wall
Street estimates. The company is looking
for $1.5 billion in gross run rate
savings over the next 2 to 3 years.
PayPal plans to cut jobs and says AI is
driving efficiency.
Coinbase shares are getting a lift
pre-market. [music] The crypto platform
also announcing plans to reduce its
workforce by 14% and focus on AI-native
talent. [music] Impacted US employees
will receive 16 weeks base pay.
And here [music] in New York, it was
fashion's biggest night at the Met Gala.
A slew of extravagantly dressed
celebrities turned out to help raise
money for the Metropolitan Museum of
Art's Costume [music] Institute.
Beyoncé, Nicole Kidman, Venus Williams,
and Anna Wintour were the gala
co-chairs, and Lauren Sanchez Bezos was
an honorary co-chair. That is your
Bloomberg Brief, John. Vony, thank you.
Credit to Shamaley who chose the
basketball.
Went to the next game, is that right?
Went to the Knicks game.
>> [music]
>> Um Ben Stiller, though, did show up at
the Met Gala, but he didn't wear an
orange tie. He should have just walked
[music] the red carpet. This is what I
would have done. Walked the carpet and
then head downtown.
>> And then go to the game. Okay. I think
we know who's in charge [music] today.
Stiller household, right? Yeah. And his
wife was holding on to him like you're
not running away.
>> the Knicks win. [music] With that,
impressive. Good job.
>> Okay. That was good. Um next on the
program, the AI productivity boom.
There is no question that AI and
everything around technology and AI is
driving a massive and I expect a
long-lasting investment boom. I expect,
you know, stronger productivity growth,
strong investment. Up next, Torsten Slok
of Apollo.
Equity futures next session highs higher
by 0.4% on the S&P [music] 500, on the
Nasdaq up by 0.6. Under Savannah's this
morning, the AI productivity boom.
There's no question that AI and
everything around technology and AI is
driving a massive and I expect a
long-lasting investment boom in this
country and quite honestly in many
countries around the world. The US leads
in this technology. It is, you know, by
far the leader in this both in terms of
developing it and I expect in using it.
So, I I I expect, you know, stronger
productivity growth,
strong investment. So, here's the latest
this morning. The New York Fed President
John Williams staying positive on tech's
labor market impact. Torsten Slok of
Apollo writing AI will drive
productivity gains and create
opportunities that will more than
replace jobs lost today. Torsten joins
us now for more. Torsten, good morning.
Morning, morning. So, the headline we
got from Coinbase earlier on was job
cuts and job cuts attributed to becoming
more of a startup-like culture, AI, all
those things. Can we start with call
centers in the Philippines and tell
everyone why they're wrong about all of
this? Well, what's so interesting about
this is that running a call center has
become cheaper and cheaper and cheaper
and in particular cheaper when you have,
of course, voice recognition, when you
have AI helping you. So, that's why
employment in call centers in the
Philippines for the last 10 years has
actually been going up telling you that
running a call center is cheaper. That
means more companies are using call
centers and they're expanding because
it's becoming cheaper to produce the
service of being a call center.
>> Now, is that just call centers or do you
see this applying to a bigger proportion
of the labor market?
>> exactly something you can apply to the
whole economy because the issue is
essentially that inputs are becoming
cheaper. And when inputs become cheaper,
maybe there's more demand for those
inputs. So, think of this for
radiologist. Radiologist read a scan and
the scan of course can be read now by
AI, but as that has become cheaper and
cheaper, the salary for radiologist at
the moment around 500,000 has continued
to go up and employment for radiologist
has also continued to go up. And across
the board, across industries, inputs of
production have basically gone down.
Very similar to what we saw during the
China shock when China entered the WGO
and goods coming from China became
cheaper. The unemployment rate didn't go
up. It was the case that cheaper goods
from China made it cheaper to produce
things in the US and as a result of
that, you also saw therefore higher
economic activity. So, broadly speaking,
if you take your economic textbook out
and you ask the question, what happens
when it becomes cheaper to produce
something? The answer is there's much
more demand for that thing. The answer
will be different if you go to the Rust
Belt. The answer will be different if
you go to centers of production in the
United States that experienced complete
washouts during the globalization. How
do you ensure that the Jevons paradox of
AI doesn't leave a lot of people
unmoored without work and not feeling
the benefit of all of these advances?
>> And that is absolutely correct that the
China shock or the entering of China
into the trading system, it did create
some very regional specific shocks in
the manufacturing sectors in the US.
They certainly could not compete with US
and with Chinese production and US
production at the same time. So, instead
we're now also seeing similarly that
those job categories that are most
impacted, they may see some negative
impact in particular of course in
programming and some parts of software,
but more broadly speaking, this is input
to the bigger part of the US business
universe. And that means that when that
input becomes cheaper, we should of
course see growth in employment. The
best example is look at the weekly data
for how many businesses are created in
the US. It is literally at the highest
level in US history. We've never seen so
many businesses created in the US. So,
some of these businesses, of course,
will also result in more employment. So,
in the last few years, the very
significant inflection point of seeing
more business creation is indeed also
going to result in more employment and
at the same time also more productivity.
>> This is what a lot of people are saying,
which is the reason why you have even
Kevin Warsh saying you could end up with
stronger growth and even a
disinflationary force because of all
this productivity that's being
introduced to the system. The transition
period, though, is faster than anything
we've ever seen before. This isn't like
globalization. This is even a faster
transmission and a lot of people are
being rendered even me in my own home
useless by Claude. So, at what point
does it become a problem by virtue of
its speed and how quickly it's
displacing people? And what's really
interesting about that, because that
connects with the discussion we had with
Elaine Garzarelli about inflation is
going up because of oil prices,
inflation is going up because of
tariffs, inflation is going up because
of restrictions on immigration. So, so
far, inflation is not being negatively
mean disinflationary because of AI. So,
it's that transition period that becomes
so important. But even though we all
agree that we will get productivity
gains and therefore downward pressure on
inflation, clearly markets are not
looking at it that way. The next
expectation is, of course, as we know,
that the Fed will be cutting only in
December 2027. And there's now a higher
probability that they will be hiking in
the beginning of next year. So, in that
sense, yes, that transition is critical.
But if this is going to take several
years, which it likely will, then we
still need to talk about, well, maybe
there's a risk that rates will stay
higher for longer before we get that
disinflationary force. Issue Torsten,
how much of a sequencing problem is
there?
Well, there's also an identification
problem because maybe the risk is that
this is just going to take a lot longer
than what people expect at the macro
level. It's very clear we're seeing it
at the micro level. There's a lot of
corporate finance examples of where this
is coming very, very quickly. But at the
macro level, that's a much, much more
slower moving animal. Because at the
macro level, before we begin to see
inflation come down, before we begin to
see this have impacts on the broader
economy, it can take several years, and
it may even take a longer than several
years, up to five years. And if that's
the case, then the Fed will not have the
luxury of saying, "Oh, AI is
disinflationary." Because the Fed
instead has to look at inflation that's
going up because of the conflict in the
Middle East.
>> This massive CapEx in certain places
driving up prices, too.
Part of the problem.
>> This has been a huge issue. So far,
CapEx has been incredibly
incredibly inflationary. At what point
does that alone end up leading the Fed
to have to hike rates, given the fact
that the sequencing is so off? Do you
think that we're underpricing that risk?
>> Yeah, so that's exactly why the big big
CapEx we're seeing is inflationary. Of
course, by semiconductor prices, very
clearly, is also very inflationary for
wages for those who construct data
centers. It's also inflationary, of
course, for the price of energy, not
only because of the Middle East, because
of what's required to build the energy
buildout. All that combined is exactly
saying that the sequence is is what you
be expecting inflation to go up
initially as a result of the data center
buildout. And then, once we begin to see
the gains, and the question is, maybe a
few years away, we should expect to see
inflation begin to come down. And that's
particularly challenging for the Fed
when we at the same time have energy
prices continue to going up at the
moment.
Torsten Slok of Apollo, Torsten,
appreciate it. Lots to think about in
the labor market right now. The AI
problem, the sequencing issues, and the
hope that it will drive down costs and
ultimately boost growth.
>> Yeah, this is what Kevin Warsh is going
to hang his hat on. I just wonder, it's
not an easy call. Let's just be very
clear about that. How do you ease this
transition period in the labor market
with allowing this economy to run it
hot, given an energy price shock that
could potentially cause it to go too hot
when it comes to some of the
inflationary pressures? And it's the
reason why the Fed is looking at a
terrible backdrop, much worse than it
they would have been looking at if we
just looked at oil prices earlier.
>> to be very difficult to convince
committee right now to reduce interest
rates because you believe this will
happen in the future. Beth Hammack is
going to be pushing back.
>> This is something you're going to have
to see in real time to get people to pay
attention to. To tell them this will
happen a year out and we can cut rates
here with inflation getting closer to
four and further away from two.
Good luck to you. Well, the 10-year will
be the ultimate arbiter and it will say,
"Uh, see you later." And if you think
that you're a buyer's strike over in the
United Kingdom, that's coming to the
United States near you. Do you want to
buy [music] some UK bonds, Tusten? No?
Going to take give that a miss? No?
Okay. All right.
Coming up,
Jordan Jackson of JP Morgan Asset
Management, the KKR CFO, Robert Lewin,
Kathy Bostjancic of Nationwide Mutual
Insurance, and Heath Terry of Citi. The
third hour of Bloomberg Surveillance
just around the corner.
>> corner.
You're still seeing a market that's a
little jittery. There are no signs of
cracking right now.
>> We need to factor in a lot of
uncertainty.
>> We are in a new era of diversification.
>> We're seeing a lot of positive
tailwinds, but we are prepared for that
to
>> [music]
>> face some challenges.
>> This is Bloomberg Surveillance with
Jonathan Ferro, Lisa Abramowicz, and
[music] Anne Marie Hoerdern.
Live from New York City this morning.
Good morning. Good morning for our
audience worldwide. The third hour of
Bloomberg Surveillance starts right now
and your scores. The price action looks
like this. Equity futures on the S&P 500
bouncing back by 0.4% on the Nasdaq up
by 0.6. [music] In the commodity market,
Brent and WTI trimming this morning's
losses still lower by about 1.5% on
Brent. [music] Let's call this 112 on
WTI 103 104 after a big gain yesterday
of 5 to 6% on Brent crude taking [music]
yields to new heights. 10s and 30s new
closing highs for the year. Your 10-year
four 44 30s north [music] of 5% closing
there for the first time since last
July. And building on those losses,
especially as you see it happening not
[music] just in the United States, but
globally with the UK 30-year yield
hitting the highest level going back to
1998. [music] Again, at what point does
this oil price shock become
disinflationary or deflationary? We're
not there yet because right now people
are taking a look [music] at how there
is strength in the underlying economy
and saying the pass-through is going to
lead to a fundamentally more
inflationary backdrop. [music]
Even in the break-even rates, you're
starting to see them creep higher. We're
leaving that 2% target behind. [music]
>> Attention turning to the economic data a
little bit later in the next few hours.
We'll get PMI PMI data at 9:45 Eastern
time, the ISM at 10:00 a.m. [music]
alongside job openings as well. And then
before all of that, happening right now
down in Washington D.C., a briefing from
the Defense Department [music] as we
just about hold on to a very fragile
ceasefire.
>> this is an important briefing coming
from General Keane and Secretary [music]
Hagseth because the president yesterday
didn't want to go as far to say that the
ceasefire was disrupted. Although we saw
a number of hostilities, infrastructure
[music]
that was hit. You had vessels that were
hit. There were clearly an clearly an
escalation in [music] the conflict
yesterday, but not enough for the
president to say we are going to want to
have strikes again. So, let's see
[music] what these two individuals have
to say. And then later on today,
Secretary Rubio will also be briefing
from the White House. So, clearly
there's a message that the White House
[music] wants to get out.
>> bullish thing you can say about risk
assets right now after the 24 hours we
just had in the Middle East is the
commitment still to the ceasefire
despite the last 24 hours. Yeah, is that
enough though? I mean ultimately the
fact that there is commitment to
ceasefire, is that enough that to give
people comfort when it's ultimately a
game of time. Look, you can tell that
nobody wants to start a huge war again
and there's clearly commitment [music]
to that. But where we are currently
isn't good enough to bring down oil
prices. We're still not seeing any
traffic. It still is a flat zero in
terms of the number of ships getting
through. There's interesting though
diplomatic tea leaves happening and I
think it's important that the Iranian
foreign minister is going to Beijing at
[music] the invitation of China at the
same time the Treasury Secretary
yesterday said China should be putting
more pressure on Iran and the president
is going to China next week. Looking
forward to that summit [music] if it
happens. Still an if. Changed last time.
>> said yesterday he is going, but it is a
good point. Of course, [music] these
things can change.
>> Coming up this hour, Jordan Jackson of
JP Morgan with stocks stabilizing will
catch up with the KKR CFO, Robert Lewin,
following a double earning speak for the
first quarter. And Kathy Bostjancic
[snorts]
of Nationwide looking ahead to Friday's
jobs report. We begin this hour with
stocks flat and crude prices easing as
uncertainty weighs on Wall Street.
Jordan Jackson of JP Morgan Asset
Management writing, "This conflict is
going to be more drawn out than
anticipated." The futures curve, "The
market still has oil above $90 a barrel
through September, and I expect that to
reprice higher." Jordan joins us now for
more. Jordan, good morning. Good
morning. It's good to see you. It's
surprising it hasn't repriced higher
already. So, what's going to change? Uh
I think the inventory picture, right? We
are drawing on inventories. We now we
came into this conflict global oil
oversupplied, right? We had roughly 8.4
million observable barrels. It was a
little bit higher at the beginning of
the year. Uh that's come down quite
significantly. When we look at
observable barrels that, you know, can
actually be tapped into to offset the
prices, it's roughly just shy of about a
billion uh barrels globally. Um and so,
that's really where you start to get to
a pressure point. We could start to get
to that pressure point over the next uh
5 to 6 weeks. Uh and I think that's
really again we're kind of eroding that
ceiling on oil prices because of the
oversupply of inventory. As that story
starts to change, I do think there's
some risk that oil prices can move
higher from here.
>> So, the draw downs unsustainable pushes
up crude. Let's take that to the equity
market. Does that introduce an index
level threat on the S&P 500? I do
because it continues to threat rate
rates, right? The equity market can't
seem to stomach a 10-year before 1/2%.
Uh and at the and at 5 and 30-year above
5. Uh and that's pretty much where we
are. So, I think if we continue to see
the oil volatility fleet into rate
volatility, I think that's sort of what
spells a little bit of concern uh for
the market. And perhaps what ultimately
happens is the 493 can't really do a
whole lot, but the AI in that trade
maybe continues to to drive the market.
You just said something that the market
can't stomach that. It's stomaching it.
We're seeing actually futures higher.
We've seen near all-time highs on all
the benchmark indices. At what point
will people start waking up to rates? Um
you know, I think what's well off at
least the month of April, right? What
drove a lot of that performance was was
the it was AI. Right back into kind of
what's worked the last three years, and
a big piece of that story has been the
semi story. Um so, you know, I think it
this the April to um early May rally has
been very concentrated. The rest of the
market breadth has not improved uh as a
result of this. And I think, you know,
maybe perhaps equity markets, equity
investors are optimists, and and bond
investors are realists. And I think
we're seeing a little bit more in the
bond market before we see a spillover to
equities. So, at this point, do you
think that the bond market is offering
an opportunity
uh to pick up some yield given the fact
that people might be looking for safety
at a time where valuations are pretty
heady if you do believe that some of
these risks are coming down the pike.
Well, over the last few years when we've
seen rates pressure higher 4 and 1/2%
again on the 10-year, you've seen buyers
step in. Uh and so, I do think that
right out sort of these levels that
we're seeing, there is a pretty
interesting kind of barbell approach
that investors can take to fixed income.
If I had a dollar put into bond market
right now, I'd put $1 a dollar 60 cents
into 1-year and under paper, and 40
cents into that intermediate core
high-quality fixed income. Why? You've
got cash yields that's not coming down
because the Fed isn't cutting rates. But
I want a little bit of a hedge in case
we start to see more demand destruction
in the event that oil prices, you know,
continue to remain elevated.
>> The H for your WASH name is H, Honor Fed
Independence by Prioritizing Inflation
Discipline. How difficult is his job
going to be? Incredibly difficult. Um if
we go back to our earlier mnemonic, A is
part of our WASH board mnemonic, um
anchoring to trimmed measures of
inflation. Um he's sort of leaned on
this idea of removing the fat tails from
inflation and looking at sort of the the
core median uh distribution. The problem
with that is is while it smooths out
inflation, it tends to underestimate
inflation when inflation's rising and
overestimate it when it's coming down.
Right now the Cleveland Fed's PCE is at
2.3% conveniently the measure most
closely to 2% right? Uh maybe that's
trying to justify um um uh cutting rates
now uh but again the Fed's got to be
forward looking not backward looking and
I think it's going to be really
difficult for him to convince a
committee of uh of 12 voting members 11
other voting members and 18 other uh uh
members.
>> stays on hold cuz you think energy
prices actually are going to go up as
well. Yes. Yes. Um and we haven't yet
seen it feed through to the inflation.
We've seen some of it feed through of
course in the March CPI report um but
the risk is that that's to the upside
right? Uh and so I think you know our
base case coming to the year we were
going to see a peak inflation rate of
about 3 and 1/2% in the second quarter.
We now think inflation could bubble up
to 4% maybe a little bit hotter than
that uh by the time we get to to May or
June of this year and again that puts
the Fed in a difficult position to
justify cutting rates.
>> June May think
full handle on inflation. That's a tough
spot for the new Fed chair. I think you
cut rates clearly. That's a clear
answer.
Good luck introducing [laughter] that
argument.
>> But this is the reason why Treasury
Secretary Scott Bastian said all right
given what we're looking at here maybe
you can wait a little bit. Question is
what other tools might he end up using
given the fact that ultimately there is
this Treasury Fed accord that we're
expecting.
>> People are speculating we're going to
see that that's for sure. Joanna thank
you. Joanna Jackson there of JP Morgan
Asset Management. There is a press
briefing taking place in Washington DC
right now at the Defense Department.
Tyler Chandler's been tracking that for
us. Tyler what's been happening?
Hey John well the briefing's still
ongoing but so far we've heard from
Secretary Pete Hegseth who started his
remarks by highlighting what's been
dubbed Project Freedom. This effort by
the US to help guide ships through the
Strait of Hormuz and he says that the US
is quote shouldering the initial risk.
Hegseth went on to say that CENTCOM is
in conversation currently with hundreds
of vessels that it would like to see get
through and that the US would prefer for
this to be a peaceful operation Though
he added that the US is locked and
loaded in his words if Iran were to
interfere. Hexeth called this a
temporary mission but reiterated that
the US is looking to hand responsibility
in his words over to international
partners to help secure the straight. Of
course the biggest question that is top
of mind is whether or not the US have
used this recent uptick in fighting just
yesterday as a violation in the
ceasefire. We've yet to hear them take
questions yet that the chair of the
Joint Chiefs of Staff Dan Kaine right
now is talking about those US efforts
yesterday to repel both missile and
drone attacks by Iran as the US helped
to guide at least two US flag vessels
through the straight. We'll see if we
get any further updates on how the US is
viewing this point in time in the
conflict though of course later today
we'll also hear from Secretary of State
Marco Rubio who's set to brief reporters
at the White House at 3:00 p.m. Eastern.
Todd kind of with Alyssa. Todd thank you
down in Washington D.C. We'll keep
tracking those headlines for you. The
Defense Secretary P. Hexeth saying the
US is stabilizing the situation but
needs the world and expects the world to
step up.
>> Yeah, I'm not sure who he's talking
about there because at this moment all
you have really are the Europeans that
continues to hold conferences about
whether or not or how they are going to
potentially go aid the United States.
But Secretary Hexeth says Iran is
embarrassed they do not control the
straight. Well then who controls it? Cuz
if the United States controls it then
why aren't vessels getting through? I
mean that that is the key question. I
hope someone asks him. I'm just watching
uh S&P futures and they're taking the
like higher on this. And the idea that
the United States wants this to be
peaceful is notable. That that is the
rhetoric, you know, yes locked and
loaded but we ultimately want this to be
peaceful is pretty significant coming
from from P. Hexeth. A preference to
maintain the blockade. Brent crude right
now at 112, WTI around 103. Let's get
you an update on news worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief. Vani
Quinn has more. Hey Vani. Hey John,
thank you. Apollo Global Management has
raised $6.5 billion for its hybrid
equity strategy. The fund will provide
financing that sits between credit and
private equity, a key piece of the
firm's broader hybrid business.
Alphabet is selling its biggest ever
euro-denominated bond, pulling in strong
demand for a sale of at least 9 billion
euros in debt. The company will use the
money to support heavy capex spending
for its ambitious AI plans. Asaurus
telling us here at Bloomberg that the
longest portion of the deal is a note
maturing in 2063.
TikTok's owner, ByteDance, says it will
be charging [music] some users for its
AI chatbot Doubao. Fees will range from
$10 a month for the basic version to
more than $70 a month for more
sophisticated platforms. [music] And
that is your Bloomberg brief, John.
Ivonne, thank you. More from Ivonne
later this hour. Up next, the Morning
Call is plus the KKR CFO, Robert Lewin,
following the company's latest earnings.
That conversation up next. From New York
City this morning, good morning.
I don't think any central bank should be
hiking right now. If you hike right now
into a demand shock, then you risk
actually easing further than like I
think markets are still a bit too
aggressive in their pricing around the
world. That was Jeff Yu of BNY about the
next steps regarding central banks
including the Federal Reserve. More
specifically, the ECB. The ECB is
gearing up for [music] a rate hike.
They've got a history of policy mistakes
under Trichet back in 2008 hiking
interest rates into GFC [music] doing
the same thing going into the Eurozone
debt crisis back in 2011, I believe. And
Christine Lagarde, the ECB president,
set up the ECB
to hike rates in June. Can back away
from that this time to communicate we're
not going to do that, but certainly
that's the direction of travel. And
we've heard the same kind of uh rhetoric
coming out of Joachim Nagel over at
Germany. So a question about whether the
market's wrong pricing in a 99% chance
that there's going to be an ECB rate
hike or whether some of the people who
are saying they shouldn't do it so they
won't do it are wrong and that
ultimately is the tension.
>> You struck us find a supply side shock
that a central banker in Germany doesn't
want to hike into.
>> [laughter]
>> Right? When you have a single mandate,
that's what ends up happening. Yes,
>> [music]
>> and it might happen all over again.
Equity features on the S&P positive by
0.5% on the S&P on the Nasdaq up by 0.8.
This is a lift head to this market with
crude backing away from the highs of the
session 111 on Brent. WTI around 103.
Yields worldwide pushing higher. We've
talked lots about this move. The 10-year
just slightly lower this morning by a
single basis point at 442. Yesterday a
new closing high for the year on 10s and
30s. 30s holding on to five. There's two
ways to look at this. On one hand, this
is a warning shot on multiple [music]
levels about inflation, about a central
bank response and about what potentially
could transpire with fiscal spending
that is exceeding [music] some of the
revenues of these countries or you could
say it's a great buying opportunity for
fixed income because ultimately you're
getting yield and it sort of depends on
which side of the aisle you're on
whether you're going to be a buyer or
whether you're going to be a seller and
that's what we're looking at. At the end
of March, people came on and looked at
this bond market sell-off. [music] By
people I mean people in fixed income and
they said we're creating value. You
should buy this. I haven't heard that
phrase
too many times a month [music] later
with yields at the same levels. Is it
different this time? There is a
structural challenge when you have oil
prices [music] that are rising and you
have potentially governments prepared to
step in fiscally to support consumers
that [music] are hurting from these
higher oil prices at the same time that
CapEx is to the moon because of AI. That
brew is becoming somewhat toxic for bond
[music] investors.
>> 10s at 442. That's the price action.
Let's get you some morning calls. First
up BNP Paribas raising its price target
on Amazon citing accelerating [music]
AI-driven demand. Your second call from
JP Morgan raising its price target on
higher saying it's improving US business
[music] is offsetting the Middle East
travel slump. And finally, KeyBank
raising its price target for On Semi to
a street high 125 expecting a strong
second [music] half of the year. That
name is down so far in the pre-market.
As well, let's turn to private credit
and private equity KKR reporting first
quarter earnings that [music] beat Wall
Street estimates. The KKR CFO Robert
Lewin joins us now from more. Rob,
welcome to the program. I want to start
with the stock price and then talk about
the underlying business. The stock into
today down 19% so far this year. Then I
look at the underlying business and it
just feels like there's a massive
disconnect right now, Rob. What explains
it?
Well, first thank you so much for having
me on this morning. I really appreciate
it. You know, Q1 was a really great
quarter for us in a lot of respects. A
lot of momentum across our different
business lines, geographies. You know, I
spend a lot of time here talking about
the health of our business. And I tell
people that the number one metric to
look at is management fees and our
management fees in the quarter were up
30% year-on-year.
That translated to our second highest
fee related earnings quarter in our
history, our third largest adjusted net
income quarter that the firm has ever
had. And so when I take a step back,
there's definitely a lot of market
noise. We can't control our near-term
share price, but what we can do is we
can lean into share buybacks which you
saw us do in Q1. You also saw our
co-CEOs and several of our directors buy
stock personally in the quarter. You
know, all we can do here is control how
we're performing and operating and if we
do that over a long period of time, we
feel really confident that our share
price will follow. Rob, how would you
describe the macro backdrop underpinning
some of the noises as you call it or
some of the fears particularly around
private credit? We did see a negative
returns for the first time in a while in
that asset class. How do you view things
as changing in terms of investor
appetite around this area?
Yeah, thanks for the question, Lisa. You
know, it's it's interesting. If you look
in Q1 of this year, this was one of our
best credit fundraising quarters in our
history.
And a lot of that is because we're in
the very earliest of innings of
investors allocating more to asset-based
finance.
And while there's a lot of noise around
the direct lending space, which for us
is around a $40 billion business today
relative to our close to 6 760 billion
of AUM, so about 5% of our business, we
have a number of institutional investors
calling us up right now wondering,
because of the pullback we're seeing
across the private wealth space for
private credit, for direct lending, is
now a good time to be entering as an
entry point into direct lending. And we
think it is. What you've seen is because
capital's come out of the uh direct
lending space,
spreads have gone out a little bit, and
I think that is um uh positioning some
institutional investors for an
interesting compelling point to enter,
and that's in part why you've seen such
uh strong fundraising numbers in credit
for KKR this quarter. Do you think that
the pain is behind us then? Some of the
shakeout tied to software, tied to some
of the lending standards that had gotten
loosened up.
Yeah, no, listen, I think you had a lot
of capital come in to the private credit
space very quickly. You were also
through a period of ti-
time where the markets were really
benign and default rates were really
low.
So, we could see a scenario here as
things play out where some of that
capital that came in very quickly
continues to come out in redemption
levels in private wealth uh around the
private credit space
um remain a little bit elevated. I think
that would be our base case. You could
definitely see defaults increasing a
little bit. You know, we've talked about
that often. We were in a period of time
that was been unusual the last few
years. And so, both things we think
could be true. At the same time, we
still view this as a compelling asset
class to deploy capital against, and I
think our investors agree. Rob, could
you tell us a little bit more about
that, the money coming in very quickly?
Is that another way of saying we sold to
retail too much? And not just you, I'm
talking about as an industry at wide.
Yeah, I think what you saw is for a
period of time the individual investor
allocating very quickly to the private
credit space.
And some of the other asset classes like
private equity and infrastructure were
more measured in terms of how investors
allocated income. That might be why
you're seeing a little bit more strength
in those asset classes with the
individual investor. You take a big step
back, you know, we see the individual
investor today 1 to 2% allocated to
alternatives.
The most sophisticated institutional
investors in the world can have 30 to
50% allocated to alternatives.
Now, we obviously don't see the
individual investor getting to that
level, but what we do see is the
individual investor over time going to 4
to 5% plus allocated to alternatives
really as a means to saving against
their retirement.
>> do you think the lessons will be with
regards to marketing to through retail
channels? What are the lessons from the
last year or so?
Yeah. So, um
well, I listen, I could I could speak
for what's happened at KKR in the
private wealth side. And if you look at
at our business in Q1, we have seven
scaled products. All seven of them had
net inflows in the quarter. We raised
roughly $4 billion of capital and we had
250 million of redemption. And so we
feel like we're pacing it pretty well
and we're focused on the long term and
how we build products and vehicles that
can that can really scale over time and
that we're really proud of the
performance that we're delivering to
clients and we're really proud of the
experience that they're having um in in
one of our KKR private wealth products.
On a broader So, it's a long-term focus.
We really aren't focused on on the
quarter-to-quarter capital raising um
you know, as much as I think the market
is. On a broader level, there's a
question about all of the money that's
been going into private credit and
private asset management just in general
that's been going toward financing this
push out for hyperscalers given the
needs to build out data centers and
other infrastructure. How do you both
participate in an industry that is going
through an absolute revolution while not
having overconcentration in particular
areas?
Yeah, it's a really good question and we
spend a lot of time talking about that.
Anytime you see a lot of capital going
into a space very quickly, we think
there's going to be some winners and
there was going to be some losers coming
out of that. And so as we think about,
you know, where we've got capabilities
inside of KKR, where we've got deep
industry expertise, we've got geographic
breadth across the firm that can help
us, we've got outside
capabilities that we're bringing to
bear. You take that together with our
really industry-leading infrastructure
platform that's leading the charge
across all things digital
infrastructure, and we feel really good
that we're going to emerge from this as
a winner. Now, you you mentioned
concentration, it's a huge point. You
know, we feel very strongly that as you
look at our fund platforms, we need to
be linearly deploying over a long period
of time. So, I think that
both
negate some
asset level concentration, but more
importantly, you know, that fights
against vintage concentration, which is
I think the number one thing
that is driven poor performance if you
look back in history in certain fund
complexes getting too concentrated
anyone vintage. You know, if you look at
the private equity space, you know, a
lot of the underperformance over the
last few years, I think is rooted in
some of our industry over deploying in
2021 and early 2022. All right, I'd love
to just finish up with the idea that
you've had incredible fundraising
success in the first quarter. How much
do you expect that to be pressured going
forward because of Middle East investors
that are pulling back as a result of
needs at home that they need to deploy
cash to?
Yeah, Lisa, we we really haven't seen
that to date. And so it's been very much
business as usual. Middle East investors
represent roughly 6% of our limited
partners
uh, globally, and we continue to do
business with them today, uh, like we
did, um, at the end of, uh, 2025 before
the war broke out. Rob, appreciate your
time this morning. Thanks for joining
the program. Thank you, sir. The KKR
CFO, Robert Lewin. It's an interesting
one, isn't it, Breanna? If you look at
the stock move, and you look at the
earnings, if you look at the earnings
this morning, I don't think you'd know
the stock was down 19% before today. You
wouldn't It wouldn't really make sense
given the record fundraising in PE, the
one of the best quarters ever for credit
fundraising, given the management
performance, et cetera, et cetera. And
yet, there is this existential fear that
there are defaults lingering under the
hood. You just wonder how high the bar
is for investors in some of these names
to, uh, dispel some of those concerns
because we've seen one after another
lining up to make sure that they're
saying, "We're not the bad guys here."
>> It's going to take consistent execution
over a long period of time, which I
imagine is what they're trying to do.
The stock is up this morning by a little
more than 1% in the pre-market. Lisa
asked the question, the connection
between that business and what's
happening in the Middle East. Here's the
latest on the Middle East right now. The
Defense Department holding a press
briefing down in Washington, D.C. as we
speak. The ceasefire still holds. That's
the message they're [music]
communicating so far this morning.
>> Yeah, Secretary Blinken says the
ceasefire is not over. It begs the
question, what would the United States
need to see in terms [music] of
hostilities, given what happened the
past 24 hours, to say, "Actually, this
does impede the ceasefire." Up next on
the program, we'll catch up with Kathy
Bostjancic of Nationwide, looking ahead
>> [music]
>> to Friday's payrolls report. A big few
days coming up for economic data in
America. Live from New York City, you're
watching Bloomberg TV.
>> [music]
>> The opening bell 60 minutes away. The
economic data seconds away. Equity
futures, your scores look like this.
Positive by 0.5% [music] on the S&P, up
by 3/4 of 1% on the NASDAQ. In the bond
market, the stage set as follows. Yields
near the highs of the year on a closing
basis, pulling back from those levels
this morning, down by two basis points
on the 10-year [music] to 441. The
30-year holding on to 5% closing there
for the first time since last July.
We're down by a basis point this
morning. With your economic data, let's
cross over to Mike McKee for more. Good
morning, Mike. Well, John, we've got
some trade data for the month of March,
which should be in the first quarter. We
got some estimates from the BEA and the
government about that in the first
quarter GDP numbers, but the trade
balance comes in at 60.3
billion in terms of a deficit, of
course. That's a little bit less than
the 60.0
that they were anticipating. The big
story here is that imports were a little
smaller than maybe had been anticipated
up 2.3% after 4.3% in February. Remember
in GDP, we had a big increase in
imports, particularly for electronic
equipment that's going into all the AI
stuff. So, this may move the needle a
little bit in terms of a revision to
GDP. But the big numbers this morning
coming up still ahead of us, the ISM
services number, which will be very
interesting in terms of prices paid
lately. And also jolts, which gives us
something we can plug into the models
about Friday's jobs report. Mike, just
on prices paid, prices paid of the ISM
manufacturing, I believe was at a
four-year high, up for four consecutive
months. Are you seeing that price
pressure start to build, Mike, beyond
just say the energy sensitive parts of
the market, the economy?
Well, you see some signs of it in
some of the
hard goods that are ingredients into
other products because a lot of that is
still tied up in shipping as well. So,
you're starting to see that, but we
haven't seen the real flow from this
into second round effects yet. But the
longer this goes on, the supply chain
analysts say it's it's really going to
hit us.
And that's what the Fed doesn't know.
Yesterday I
talked to John Williams for a bit.
He thinks that the Fed is united on
rates. The real difference is are they
sending strong guidance or not? He is of
the belief that they didn't need to
dissent really the dissenters because
the guidance isn't that strong and
they'll have to see what happens.
Although he thinks inflation's going to
fall fairly rapidly later this year.
That's a big bet that the vice chair of
the open market committee is making.
>> That's a major bet. Mike, thank you,
sir. Mike McKee with the latest here in
New York City breaking down the latest
economic data. Prices paid is super
elevated in that ISM. Everything else is
pretty decent. Labor market seems to be
stable based on recent indicators.
Economy's expanding nicely. Prices paid
just exploded over the last few months.
>> Which is why we're watching ISM services
prices paid, which comes out at 10:00
a.m. Do we get the same kind of
read-through given the fact that oil
prices are higher and consumers are able
to pay? That's the interesting thing.
You're not seeing necessarily a massive
degree of demand destruction just yet.
>> Let's talk about the data. On Friday we
get the payrolls report. Kathy
Bostjancic of Nationwide writes in, "We
expect the unemployment rate to remain
historically low and hold at 4.3% as the
low hire, low fire environment likely
persisted." Kathy joins us now for more.
Kathy, welcome to the program. Does that
mean these consumers in this economy
will be able to tolerate higher prices?
Well, good morning, John.
Well, I I think what it it means that it
gives a little bit of support to
consumer spending. Um
I think the consumer's still going to
feel the the the pain of higher prices
than they already are, right? With
gasoline prices up around $4.50, you
know, per per gallon across the country.
Um
you know, I think the timing of when
they feel the impact is important here,
too.
It may be that consumers dip further
into savings to maintain their
consumption for the near term. That was
not our original thought. We thought
that really Q2 you'd start to see
consumer spending discretionary spending
pull back. That's still officially our
forecast. We're looking for GDP growth
to dip to 1%, you know, from 2% in the
in the first quarter and then recover in
the second half of the year. But when I
looked at the March retail sales
consumer spending data, you did see the
savings rate dip and if if it's similar
to what played out during the Ukraine
war, you know, the savings rate could go
down to 2% or so. So maybe it it we see
the slowness more in the Q3. So bottom
line, consumers not immune, but the
strength of labor market helps them feel
a little more confident.
>> where have you got inflation peaking? At
what level and when?
Yeah, great question. So we just revised
our numbers based on the you know, the
the string of the run-up in in oil and
and gasoline prices over the last week
and we now see it peaking, you know,
close to 4 and 1/2% on a year-on-year
rate for for CPI.
We think that peaks in the second
quarter and and then as gasoline prices
trend lower in second half of the year,
you get the year-on-year rate Q4 and Q4
around 3.3%. That's headline. Core rates
lower. We think that could dip below 3%
to about 2.7. So a lot of the headline
pressures really coming from higher
energy prices.
But again, you know, this run-up it it
does have an impact and we think it gets
consumers and businesses to pull back a
little bit on their spending. How much
can this Fed not hike rates if the
inflation rate gets to 4 and 1/2% and
longer-term inflation expectations are
well above 2%?
So it is a
uh time for the Fed and we're seeing
that, right? Um we see even though they
formally didn't adopt a neutral bias,
the as Chair Powell said, many of them
are moving towards that. Wouldn't be
surprised at the next meeting if if you
see that neutral bias. You know, that
said, this is a
tax on the consumer, right? And we think
it's largely temporary. We don't think
it's going to get embedded into
inflation expectations. But game over,
you know, if you're right, Lisa, and we
see inflation expectations stay elevated
for longer, that could uh prompt the
Fed's hand. It's not what we're thinking
at this point. We think that the Fed at
is probably just on a long period of
hold, and actually raising rates could
make things worse, right? It could slow
the economy just when you're getting hit
by these higher energy prices. But it is
a delicate balance for them. If the Fed
were to uh cut rates here in the next
couple of months, let's say, for
whatever reason, because of beliefs in
AI and what that does to some of the
efficiency, the productivity in the in
the labor market, what would happen with
long-term rates?
Well, if the market did not believe that
was the correct move, and they were
worried that that it could juice up
economic activity and therefore make
inflation even higher and more
persistent, uh long-term rates would
rise um and the yield curve would
steepen. And it would not really benefit
the broad economy. You think about
mortgage rates would only go higher.
Um and that's one part of the economy we
really like to get restarted. Imagine if
housing was not so stalled. We'd have
even stronger growth right now. Um so I
think that's that's that would be the
conundrum for the Fed is if they make a
policy change, markets don't agree,
they're going to get penalized. Surely
uh incoming Fed Chair Kevin Warsh knows
this, right, Kathy? And that potentially
is one of one of the reasons why that
might mean that he can't go in and try
to get everyone to get on board with an
interest rate cut?
I would think so. You know, he has
extensive experience, right, at the
Federal Reserve and is well aware of
these dynamics. Um, I think one thing we
have to watch is the interplay between
the Treasury and the Federal Reserve.
And we know that the Treasury, uh,
they they they're looking to reopen and
re-examine the Treasury-Fed Accord. You
know, what kind of cooperation would
they try to do some kind of yield curve
control and would that be successful?
That would be one thing that we have to
watch on the policy front. Would that be
something that you have to watch for
this year?
It's possible. Yeah, it's possible. Um,
I, you know, how quickly they move and
and and, you know, make changes. Um, I
think it's something we have to be alert
to. We already see the Treasury buying
back more, um, long-term securities.
They're off-the-run, um, but doing
buybacks. Um, and there's already been
talk of, right, of some uh,
increased cooperation. Um, so maybe the
Federal Reserve and and the Treasury,
um, they do engage in something where
you're you're dealing with bills and
long-term notes in a way that they kind
of try to control it. Um, I don't know
that that would be very successful. I
think fundamentals still play out, but
it's something that we have to be on
alert for. Kathy, appreciate it. As
always, Kathy Bostjancic there of
Nationwide Mutual Insurance. This time
tomorrow, we'll be talking about
quarterly refunding. Why does that
matter? This Treasury needs to borrow
far more than they thought they'd need
to borrow only a few months ago. And it
matters because at the moment they're
buying a lot of that at the very front
end of the yield curve, so in T-bills.
And there's been the speculation that
some point they'll shift that out to
longer-dated maturities, coupon
issuance, so to speak.
Are they going to do that anytime soon?
Ultimately, a lot of people are
expecting them to issue it in the front
end and have some sort of Fed-Treasury
Accord. Scott Bessent has talked about
wanting to issue more on the long end
and that it makes more sense, but that
only makes sense when yields are low. It
does not make sense when yields are at
this level and they don't want to lock
in borrowing costs at this speed. I just
wonder what kind of Treasury Fed accord
we could be looking at. That really
should be the analysis going forward
because that seems very feasible. Both
have talked about it.
>> Not only has the Treasury Secretary they
said that's what he wants to do. Before
he was a Treasury Secretary, he came on
this program saying that it was really
bad and terrible and she was juicing the
books when it comes to what Janet Yellen
was doing, which is why everyone feels
like at least we wrote it as it's
Groundhog Day for bond holders. I'm not
sure how that works for the man who
wants to reduce the balance sheet. I'm
not sure how all of this adds up. I'm
still trying to get my head around that.
I'm struggling as well. If you want to
reduce the balance sheet, but you want
to keep yields lower and you want to
somehow get cut rates so that you avoid
the firing line of President Trump. It
It just becomes a very difficult
equation.
>> emphasis on cutting interest rates and
you keep that super super low. You're
providing an incentive to anyone who's
at the Treasury to carry on issuing a
ton of T-bills and not turn out the
debt. Which is essentially what they're
expected to do and we'll see that
tomorrow when we get the exact breakdown
of how they plan to fund $189 billion
for quarterly funding.
>> under Yellen, we're seeing under
Bessent, not much has changed. Let's get
you an update on stories worldwide this
morning with your Bloomberg brief, Vanya
Quinn. Has more. Hey Vanya. Hey John,
thank you. Recapping the data that we
just got, the US trade balance coming in
at a $60.3 billion deficit in March,
slightly under expectations. US imports
falling to just a 2.3% rise after a more
than 4% rise the previous months. More
data coming later this morning with
JOLTS and ISM services.
Defense Secretary Pete Hegseth saying
the US Iran ceasefire with Iran is
holding [music] despite recent strikes.
Chairman of the Joint Chief of Staff
Keane describing yesterday's Iranian
attacks as just below the threshold for
war.
Hegseth emphasizing that Project Freedom
is a temporary project, but the US is
ready to resume [music] combat if
necessary.
The next dominating game one of the
second round of the NBA playoffs,
Jalen Brunson leading all scorers with
35 points. The Sixers were coming off
just one day's rest after storming back
[music] to eliminate the Boston Celtics.
Game two tips off tomorrow night at
Madison Square Garden, and that is your
Bloomberg Brief, [music] John. I Vani,
thank you. Appreciate it. Up next on the
program, we'll catch up with Heath Terry
of City Research with AMD earnings, the
next big test for AI. Plus, your hires
got your morning movers. Shares of
Shopify falling on slowing [music]
revenue concerns. That name is down by
6%.
>> [music]
>> This is input to the bigger part of the
US business universe, and that means
that when that input becomes cheaper, we
should of course see growth in
employment. We've never seen so many
businesses created [music] in the US.
The very significant infection point of
seeing more business creation is indeed
also going to result in more employment
and at the same time also more
productivity. [music]
We need more of that. That was Torsten
Slok of Apollo with a constructive view
on AI and the labor market a little bit
earlier on in the program using the call
centers in the Philippines as an
example. [music]
And employment just going up into the
right every year that goes by even with
this boom in technology. [music]
>> Yeah, the problem is just that it's
lumpy, right? It's not going to benefit
everyone at the same time. It might
benefit a younger [music] person who's
in your own home, who's working on
Claude, but it might might not benefit
an older person who is, you know, going
with digital. You went there. [music]
You talked about the displacement with
globalization. It's a question we've
returned to continuously. Will this
technology do to white collar what
globalization did to blue collar? And if
so, how are we going to handle that?
>> And that's how people are receiving
comments that might be
>> [music]
>> AI washing. I'm going to get that right.
When Coinbase or Block come out and say
we're cutting [music] a significant
swath of our employees because guess
what, we don't need them. And we could
do more with less, and we can have a
smaller innovative startup like feel
using [music] AI. The stock market has
certainly enjoyed the headlines and the
earnings recently. Equity futures up by
0.5 on the S&P on the Nasdaq 100 this
morning, bouncing back on the Nasdaq car
by 3/4 of 1% [music] as we count you
down to the opening bell about 43
minutes away. Let's get you some single
names, some morning movers. Yohai has
more. Hi, Yohai. Hi, John. Shopify out
with earnings this morning. Shares
[music] are falling 6% after the outlook
disappointed. This is a company that
powers online stores for [music]
merchants, so it gives you a good read
on the consumer and the outlook
suggesting that spending is slowing
moving forward. [music]
Turning to Intel, those shares are
rising nearly 4% in the pre-market.
market on our reporting that Apple is
exploring using Intel as well as Samsung
to build its processors for devices
[music] here in the US. It's still early
days, and Apple is still locked in with
TSMC, but it speaks to the tightness
that we're seeing in the chips market.
And we end with [music] Coinbase. As you
all were just discussing, shares are up
4% in the pre-market as the company says
AI can help it be leaner. So, it is
cutting about 14% of its workforce, but
the question [music] is how much of that
AI driven productivity is just masking a
tougher backdrop in crypto, something
that the CEO did [music] acknowledge,
John. Yohai, thank you. Thanks for
breaking it down. Some single names for
you. The morning movers going into the
opening bell as we count you down. Some
things to look for through today and
through the rest of this week. More data
[music] at 9:45 Eastern time, PMI data
tomorrow, the ISM, and job openings 3:00
p.m. Eastern [music] tomorrow, a press
briefing from Secretary of State Marco
Rubio. That's a little bit later this
afternoon, rather. And then after the
close, we get results from 8MD. Looking
ahead to later this [music] week, we'll
get another round of jobless claims
Friday, the payrolls report. So, the ISM
and jobs data [music] a little bit later
this morning. Yeah, key question, how
hot is just right given the fact that
people are looking at the inflation
read-through [music]
and saying, "Well, if the labor market's
just fine, tepid, then it could be
disinflationary down the line." Let's
talk about the data and the earnings
we've seen. Looking ahead to AMD, set to
be the next big test for AI following
with the company's best month since the
dot-com era. Heath Terry at Citi writing
2026 is the year enterprise AI scales
and the gap between leaders and laggards
grows larger. Heath joins us now for
more. Heath, good morning. Good morning.
Thanks for having me.
>> you. We've seen a massive rally at
certain parts of tech. Yeah. We had a
guest from Barclays yesterday who said,
"We're too focused on the path to here
and not on where we are." So, can we
forget about the rally and just talk
about the price of the story today
relative to the earnings you expect? How
appealing is this sector at the moment?
Look, I I think it's still very very
appealing. I think the broader sort of
AI trade that we're seeing, I think your
your your your prior guest is absolutely
right though. We we are still so very
focused on everything that we have built
to get here, everything that we need to
build to get to where we're where we're
going. So, the infrastructure trade is
still very very important, but we're
sort of leaving behind the beneficiaries
of all of this in terms of the
productivity you're going to see from
AI, in terms of the companies that are
delivering a lot of these a lot of these
services. And I think as we get through
this year and see enterprising adoption
of AI continue to accelerate, that's
going to start to shift.
>> simple terms, this is enablers versus
adopters. Yeah, I think
>> People have been talking about shifting
to adopters for quite a while. Why the
lack? What's happening here?
>> But it's also it's not even just that,
it's a very specific subset of enablers,
right? We're just focused on the
infrastructure companies and we're
really just focused on the
infrastructure companies where there are
bottlenecks. Um you look you you take it
one step further into the enablers. You
have all the hyperscalers and the neo
clouds that haven't really participated
at the same level. Um, and then in terms
of the companies that are really benefit
benefiting from this, it's the companies
that are that are that are using it.
It's the financial institutions, the
health care companies, the energy
development companies that are putting
AI to work and seeing real material
benefits from it. How do you identify
which adopters are doing it successfully
and which are just wasting money? Yeah,
look, there's a there's a huge spread.
This is this technology is not evenly
distributed out there.
You look at
what we look at to try and determine
this is we we look at revenue per
employee. That's a a reasonably good
indicator. We look at the talent that's
there. We look at the companies that
have actually been hiring and investing
in AI talent. There's not a lot of it
out there and so when companies have
actually made a commitment to bringing
it in, we think that that's really
telling. And then we look at some of the
partnerships that are out there. You
know, who has partnerships with the
leading AI labs, who are you know, front
footed in this.
Some of it, you mentioned AI washing
before, some of it you have to keep an
eye out for because companies
will likely get ahead of themselves in
terms of what they say they're doing
versus what they're actually doing.
And then we try and, you know, kind of
filter from there.
>> Well, just to in that vein, do you view
it as a positive signal when someone
cuts staff in order to raise money to
spend on AI?
Yeah, look, I I I think you've got to
start with the AI part of it. You've got
to put the the productivity there. I
think there is a lot of motivation in
industries to use cutting staff to sort
of drive adoption of AI within the
companies. If we, you know, if we take
these resources away, it'll force them
to use more AI and so we we watch for
for those kind of things. It's a risky
move, particularly given the the uneven
pace of of adoption of the technologies.
>> Morale hit. Yep, the morale hit.
Although people don't seem to be too
particularly worried about those for for
whatever reason.
But the stark stock market's rewarding
companies for for doing that.
And so I I I think we're I think we're
going to see more of it, not less.
>> So you agree with Torsten Slok's view of
the world when it comes to AI. In the
end, it's going to create more jobs.
Look, I I think if you make people
better at their jobs, which these tools
do, you want more of those people, not
less.
Now the path to getting there may be
uneven, right? We will see companies
make missteps around around layoffs
related to AI. We will see potentially
the layoffs moving ahead of
the pace of
new hires for for that and creating
creating more jobs. And there will
certainly be places within within
individual sectors where you see
absolute job destruction.
With the creation being in other
sectors.
>> Where do you think we are now in the
pace? We're
Well, in terms of in terms of the pace,
we are we are seeing a real inflection.
What what we look at is
hyperscaler backlog is just a proxy for
this. We've gone from 28% year-over-year
growth this time last year to 143%
coming out of coming out of Q1. In Q4,
that was 95%. So we accelerated from 95%
to 143% in one quarter. That gives you a
sense of sort of what's what's driving
this in this bend in the S-curve that
we're seeing. You alluded to the
positive feedback loop between job cuts
and the stock price reaction. Cutting
jobs, stocks positive. What about the
positive feedback loop between spending,
CapEx intentions, and the stock market
reaction? Because that's not so positive
anymore, at least for some names. Metra
decent example in the last week. Is that
starting to be broken? What's your
assessment of what's been happening? So
it depends on how you're how you're
getting there.
Early on [clears throat] the CapEx
investment was a sign of confidence. It
was a sign that your customers were
telling you they needed more of your
product.
We're now at a point where it's a sign
that you're going to have to borrow more
money.
And that's something that the the
markets are just a lot less a lot less
comfortable with, even though these
companies are generating really high
returns on this investment. We we look
at cash return on cash invested as sort
of the best proxy for this. Um that was
29% coming out of across the
hyperscalers um coming out of both uh
Q3, Q4, and Q1. So, we've you know,
we've seen it very consistent despite
this acceleration. So, if you can borrow
money at 6% and get a 29% return on it,
you're supposed to do more of that. And
so, I think ultimately, that's why we're
going to see more CapEx around this. But
the difference is last year, the market
underestimated CapEx by 40%. We
underestimated revenue growth by 3%.
Those numbers have to flip.
How sensitive is this
C-suite to market reaction? It's kind of
what I'm getting at here. Do you think
they just plow [clears throat] on given
everything you've just said? I I think
most of the hyperscalers are very well
aware of sort of where their customers
are and where they're thinking. So, I
think they're willing to plow on.
They're willing to take, you know, the
down 7% day when they announce more more
CapEx because they see the demand on the
other side of it. They see the return
that they're getting out of it. You
know, companies like Amazon, they've
been through this before. They they know
what an investment cycle is worth to
them on the on the other side. It's the
the companies where you get a 20% bump
because they announced that they were
laying off 4,000 people because of AI,
where I think you have to worry about
management necessarily having a
more of a concern or more of a reaction
to the stock the market's reaction than
they are sort of longer-term planning.
>> Interesting. Hey, thank you, sir. That's
good framing. I'll read between the
lines there. He's Terry there, a city
research. Hey, thank you. A notable line
there given the news we had earlier this
morning. Yeah, there might be more of an
incentive in terms of the stock market
reaction in terms of the the cutbacks
than the announcements to invest because
if a company wants to invest cuz
long-term they believe they truly are
going to be a different company, they're
going to keep investing even if stock
investors don't like what they're doing.
>> Stock investors this morning like what
they're hearing were positive by 0.5% on
the S&P 500. Coming up tomorrow,
>> [music]
>> Max Kettner, who is Max overweight this
market. We catch up with the man from
HSBC tomorrow morning alongside General
Karen Gibson of Academy [music]
Securities, Chris Harvey of CIBC, US
Trade Representative Jamison Greer, and
a whole lot more. From New [music] York
City this morning, good morning. Thank
you for choosing Bloomberg TV. This was
Bloomberg Surveillance.